WASHINGTON: The Senate defied President Bill Clinton by approving a measure that would require the United States to unilaterally lift the arms embargo against Bosnia.
The plan proposed by Senate Republican leader Bob Dole would force the US administration to disregard the 1991 UN embargo and clear the way for US arms shipments to help the Bosnian government defend itself in the two-year-old war.
Although the amendment, approved 50 to 49, has little chance of becoming law, it undercut Clinton a day ahead of international talks in Geneva on resolving the conflict.
KIGALI: Fighting between government troops and the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front subsided in the capital Kigali as UN negotiators continued efforts to halt five weeks of bitter conflict.
UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said there had been some exchanges of fire during the day but added that while the situation remained tense it was also "relatively calm."
Earlier, both Rwandan government and rebel forces shelled a UN relief convoy making its way from Kigali to the Runda refugee camp, but there were no casualties.
UN representative Jacques-Roger Booh-Booh meanwhile flew for Paris to consult UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who has proposed increasing the UN contingent to 5,500.
SALAHEDDIN, Northern Iraq: More than 100 people have been killed in the past two weeks in clashes between the two main Kurdish groups which have split northern Iraq, leaders from both sides said.
The fighting between the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the Democratic Party of Kurdistan ended early this week, they said.
The DPK has taken the control of the northwestern of Kurdistan around the town of Dahuk, while the PUK had seized the southeast, around Sulaymaniyah.
SANAA: Northern Yemen forces loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh said they had shot down a southern warplane over the road to the stronghold of Aden.
A northern military spokesman told the official news agency SABA that northern troops had also launched a series of air raids against the airport in Ataq, in Shabwa province about east of Aden.
UNDATED: Tributes poured in from around the world to the late Labour Party leader John Smith, who died from a massive heart attack at age 55.
In Washington, the US State Department issued a statement regretting "the untimely death" of the rapier-tongued Scottish barrister and parliamentarian.
In Bonn, the head of the German Social Democratic Party, Rudolf Scharping, said in a statement he was "very affected by the sudden death of John Smith.
French President Francois Mitterrand sent a message of condolences to Smith's widow and to Labour Party general-secretary Larry Whitty.
CAIRO: The PLO on gave Israel a partial list of members of the Palestinian authority due to take power next week in Gaza and Jericho.
Palestinian negotiator Nabil Shaath told a press conference "the (Palestinian) cabinet has been formed, I just transmitted it to Yitzhak Rabin," the Israeli prime minister.
He said the PLO had agreed with Rabin that the new authority "will be functional from Wednesday."

GENEVA: Foreign ministers of Russia, the United States and five European countries called for a four-month ceasefire in Bosnia in an effort to put peace negotiations back on track.
They urged the warring parties to reach agreement on the basis of a European plan for the ethnic division of the former Yugoslav republic, with 51 percent of the territory going to a Bosnian Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to Bosnian Serbs.
In a joint declaration, the seven states plus the European Union held out the prospect of a "phased suspension" of UN-imposed sanctions against Serbia in return for "good faith" implementation of a peace settlement "that includes provisions for withdrawal to agreed territorial limits."
SANAA: Southern Yemen troops suffered "heavy losses" when northern forces recaptured the town of Al Musaymir, northwest of Aden, a spokesman for the defense ministry announced.
The report came as northern leaders rejected a seven-point ceasefire plan put forward by their southern counterparts.
The rival armies of former North and South Yemen have been locked in civil war since May 5, shattering four years of uneasy union between the conservative north and the Marxist south.
UNITED NATIONS: The UN Security Council delayed a vote on a plan to deploy 5,500 UN troops to Rwanda to reinforce a UN mission reduced to 270 members.
While welcoming the US initiative to establish protected sites for refugees close to Rwanda's borders with Burundi and Tanzania, UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said concentrating on that "would be to only address a small part of the problem" and could draw more refugees.
PARIS: Nearly 100 Rwandan nurses, doctors and drivers of the relief organization Medecins sans Frontieres have been killed in the country's civil war since mid-April, the Paris-based group announced.
The killings happened inside refugee camps, hospitals and medical centers.
An MSF team that visited the massacre sites said only 40 civilians out of about 2,800 grouped at the Saint Joseph center at Kibongo survived a massacre there on April 15.
HONG KONG: Chinese dissident Chen Ziming, one of the leading figures during the 1989 pro-democracy movement, was released from prison to receive medical treatment, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
Chen's temporary release follows the Chinese government's release of five Christians from re-education camps, as well as the liberation of two other dissidents, in an apparent attempt to persuade US President Bill Clinton to extend China's most-favored-nation trade status.
WASHINGTON: Ukraine agreed to adhere to guidelines for nonproliferation of missile technology, the White House said.
Vice President Al Gore and Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Shmarov signed a memorandum of understanding on the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR), which the United States and 24 other nations belong to, the White House said in a statement.
WASHINGTON: President Bill Clinton selected Stephen Breyer, a Massachusetts federal judge, as his nominee to the US Supreme Court.
Breyer, 55, seen as a moderate consensus-builder, had been favored by Clinton last year before he named Ruth Ginsburg to the court. "
Without dispute he is one of the outstanding jurists of our age," Clinton said.
Named for life, the nine Supreme Court justices have a huge role in determining the course of American society.
Appointees must be confirmed by the Senate.
BONN: German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's center-right coalition has drafted a bill making it a crime punishable by up to three years in prison for anyone to deny that the Holocaust took place.
Members of the coalition said they would present the bill to the Bundestag, or lower house of parliament, next week so that it could be voted into law later this year.
Denying that the Nazis murdered millions of Jews in death camps during World War II is currently not a crime in Germany, although numerous courts have punished culprits by convicting them for inciting racial hatred or defaming the dead.

TOKYO: North Korea said it had begun refuelling a controversial nuclear reactor before the arrival of inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
The Korean spokesman said the IAEA had refused to send inspectors to observe the refuelling operation at the Yongbyong plant unless the fuel rods could be sampled. "
We had no choice but to ... start taking out fuel rods for safety reasons," the spokesman was quoted as saying by the official Korean Central News Agency, monitored here.
In Vienna IAEA spokesman David Kyd earlier warned the inspectors would cut short the visit if the fuel change operation had already started.
Washington has warned Pyongyang could extract enough plutonium from the spent fuel to make four or five nuclear bombs.
SANAA: Northern troops loyal to Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh captured the strategic town of Daleh, north of Aden, after several days of fierce fighting, correspondents said.
Daleh controls a key position on the road to the main southern air base.
The South called for the Arab League to intervene to stop the 10-day civil war, Aden Radio said.
But an Arab League delegation here since Thursday waiting to deliver a ceasefire call was not expected to make headway because both the south and north had toughened their positions, a source at the organisation's Cairo headquarters said.
GENEVA: The Bosnian Moslem government and Bosnian Croat representatives failed to sign a document creating a federation in Bosnia-Hercegovina, opting instead to mark the accord with a simple ceremony here in the presence of US Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
Earlier Bosnian leaders reacted angrily to US backing for a European peace plan dividing Bosnia, viewing it as a reward for Serb aggression.
The plan endorsed by the United States, Russia and five west European states in Geneva Friday would allocate 51 percent of Bosnia-Hercegovina to a Bosnian Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to Serbs.
Serbs also rejected the proposed territorial division.
SARAJEVO: Fierce artillery battles have raged between Bosnian Serb forces and the Bosnian army in the Vares region in northern Bosnia, a UN spokesman said.
UN troops in the Nordic battalion reported nearly 300 detonations and heavy automatic weapons fire near Vares, said Major Eric Chaperon.
Meanwhile six British UN troops were held for several hours at a Serb checkpoint and stripped of their weapons and ammunition, Chaperon said.
Machine gun and light weapons fire has also been reported just north of Sarajevo.
KIGALI: Rebels of the mainly Tutsi Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) battled Hutu-dominated government troops for control of Kigali, UN sources said, with the heaviest fighting taking place around the headquarters of the United Nations mission and the airport road.
Meanwhile government sources in Canberra said at least 10 western countries, including Australia, have been asked to contribute to a 5,500 strong UN force that may be sent to Rwanda.
The UN Security Council has delayed a vote on a plan to deploy the 5,500 peacekeepers to reinforce some 400 troops already in place.
JABALIA, Occupied Gaza Strip: Palestinian policemen were deployed here after Israeli troops withdrew under the cover of night, delighting the Gaza refugee camp where the intifada was born.
A contingent of 240 policemen, recruited from Palestine Liberation Army (PLA) units in Sudan, marched into the Gaza Strip from Egypt.
In Jerusalem, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Israel and the PLO now had to push ahead with negotiations on extending Palestinian self-rule, following its launch in Jericho and Gaza.
THE HAGUE: Queen Beatrix was due to appoint three party officials to negotiate a broad coalition government for the Netherlands, thrown into political turmoil after this month's general election.
The negotiators will be Klaus de Vries for the the Social Democrats (PVDA), Gijs van Aardenne for the right-wing Liberal Democrats (VVD) and Jan Vis for left-wing Democrats '66 (D66) party, a statement from the palace said.
If confirmed, the left-right coalition will mark the first time the Christian Democrats have been left out of power for 75 years.

TOKYO: North Korea, threatening to reignite an international row Saturday, said it had begun refuelling a controversial nuclear reactor without international inspectors who want to test if material has been diverted for atomic weapons. "
The replacement of fuel rods has begun at our five-megawatt experimental nuclear power station according to its operational plan," a North Korean foreign ministry spokesman told the official Korean Central News Agency, monitored in Tokyo.
US officials believe Yongbyong holds the key to whether North Korea has developed its own nuclear bomb.
SARAJEVO: Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic denounced Saturday as "unacceptable" western calls for a four-month ceasefire throughout Bosnia, saying a two-month ceasefire "would suffice to find a political solution."
The call for a four-month truce was issued Friday by foreign ministers of the United States, Russia and several European countries.
Meanwhile, in Zagreb, Croatian President Franjo Tudjman warned world leaders against accepting the current territorial division in Bosnia, and linked settlement of the two-year-old war with resolution of the "Serb occupation" of a quarter of Croatian territory in the Krajina region.
KAMPALA: Ugandans living on the shores of Lake Victoria have embarked on a major grave-digging effort to bury thousands of corpses that continue to flow into the lake from Rwanda though the River Kagera.
Ugandan villagers have buried an estimated 26,000 bodies recovered from the lake during the past three weeks, said Emmanuel Pinto, a member of parliament from western Uganda.
In Kigali, former French minister Bernard Kouchner called on the international community to help avert "genocide" in Rwanda.
The carnage has claimed an estimated 200,000 lives in little more than five weeks.
KIGALI: The UN mission in Rwanda hit out at United Nations Security Council delays in deploying fresh troops in Rwanda. "
A single day's delay is one day too much," said Moctar Gueye, a spokesman for the United Nations Assistance Mission in Rwanda in the capital Kigali.
The UN Security Council delayed a vote Friday until next week on a plan to deploy 5,500 UN troops to Rwanda to reinforce a UN mission reduced to 270 members.

MARKULA, Yemen: Southern leaders appealed to the Arab world for help in ending Yemen's 10-day-old civil war after troops loyal to Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh seized the strategic town of Daleh.
Thousands of people -- mainly women, children and the elderly --demonstrated in Aden, calling for an immediate end to the fighting, an AFP correspondent reported.
WASHINGTON: Haitian strongman Lt.
General Raoul Cedras, head of the ruling military junta, warned that any US invasion of Haiti would be met with fierce resistance by all the people of the nation.
Cedras said that the whole country would rise up if US President Bill Clinton ordered US troops to invade.
An invasion "will be the most terrible mistake of the United States of America" said Cedras during an interview with CNN broadcast Saturday.
BEIRUT: Syrian President Hafez al-Assad persuaded Lebanese Prime Minister Rafic Hariri to resume his duties after a week-long boycott of government meetings in a row over a planned cabinet reshuffle, a source close to the premier said.
Hariri froze his duties last Sunday, angry that plans to increase the number of Christians in his cabinet had been blocked by President Elias Hraoui.
INDIANAPOLIS, Indiana: Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds briefed President Bill Clinton here Saturday on Northern Ireland during a private meeting, a White House official said.
Reynolds, who arrived in the United States on Friday, had not been scheduled to meet any members of the US administration during his trip, which is essentially concerned with trade, until he received the last-minute invitation from Clinton.
A Clinton spokesman said the president told Reynolds that he hoped the latest developments would lead to a solution, a reference to the Irish government's transmission of a Sinn Fein document to London detailing demands for clarification of the Anglo-Irish joint declaration.

VIENNA: UN inspectors left for North Korea after Pyongyang said it had started a controversial replacement of reactor fuel rods, the International Atomic Energy Agency said.
The agency had said the inspectors would not make the trip unless the reclusive Stalinist state agreed to postpone the fuel rod replacement.
But the agency said it was not clear if the process had begun and wanted to see for itself.
NAIROBI: Fighting between Rwandan rebels and government forces intensified in several districts of Kigali and in towns across the country, a UN spokesman in the capital said.
Abdul Kabia reported heavy clashes between the Rwandan Patriotic Front and government troops in the eastern and southeastern suburbs of Remera and Kicukiro.
Mortar shells also fell in the centre of the capital, he said.
MARKULA, Yemen: Rival troops in Yemen's civil war squared up for a major battle for control of a key southern base near Aden as northern leaders pressed on for a military victory over the south.
Southern troops prepared artillery defences around Markula, a mountain village about 80 kilometres (50 miles) from Aden, to block a northern advance on the huge Al-Anad military base farther south.
Nearly all the inhabitants of Markula and nearby villages have fled south toward Aden.

BONN: A 19-year-old suspect was brought in for questioning in connection with an outbreak of anti-foreign violence in the east German town of Magdeburg.
Magdeburg prosecutor Rudolf Jaspers did not disclose the identity of the suspect but said in response to a question on whether the man was an extremist: "He is not unknown to us."
The violence last Thursday involved gangs of skinheads who banded together to hunt down foreigners, most of them Africans.
LONDON: Two British airlines cancelled flights to Paris' Orly airport, averting a showdown over landing rights after France and Britain agreed to open the airport to services out of London by the end of June.
In a joint statement, French Transport Minister Bernard Bosson and his British counterpart John MacGregor said they were committed to opening the Orly-London link to air traffic "as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of June."
SARAJEVO: Fighting raged between the mainly Moslem Bosnian army and Bosnian Serb troops near the northern Bosnian town of Tuzla, the UN Protection Force said in a statement.
The heaviest clashes were centered on the region of Brgule, south of Tuzla.
TAIPEI: A senior Taiwan official warned that restrictions on links with China could not be lifted until there was a proper and open inquiry into the killing of 24 Taiwanese tourists. "
We are not ready to remove the curbs yet," said Yeh Chin-feng, vice chairman of the cabinet-level Mainland Affairs Council, in a warning that relations risked remaining cool.
The tough stance comes after a delegation investigating the March 31 tragedy returned from China unhappy with the way the inquiry was being handled.

DAMASCUS: Secretary of State Warren Christopher was expected to hold a second day of talks with Syrian officials to further explore means of forging peace between arch foes Syria and Israel.
Christopher held four hours of talks with Syrian President Hafez al-Assad right after his arrival at the start of his second peace shuttle between Syria and Israel in as many weeks.
BELGRADE: Russian special envoy Vitaly Churkin arrived in the Serbian capital to discuss a joint western-Russian peace plan, the agency Tanjug reported as Serb leaders gave the proposal a cool reception.
Churkin was due to meet Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic on to discuss the peace plan, endorsed by US, Russian and five west European foreign ministers in Geneva late Friday.
NEW YORK: Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao was scheduled to go to Houston, Texas, to discuss US investment prospects in India, notably in the just-opened telecommunications sector.
Rao, the first Indian prime minister to visit the United States in seven years, is also expected to discuss a number of thorny issues with President Bill Clinton in Washington, including India's ambitious nuclear program.
WASHINGTON: US Senate leaders from both sides of the political spectrum said they favored economic sanctions to force North Korea to allow international monitoring of its nuclear program.

GAZA CITY, Occupied Gaza Strip: A shoot-out between Israeli troops and Palestinian gunmen left four Gazans wounded, Palestinian sources said, as their new police force carried out its first investigation.
The army said two Palestinians aboard a truck from which the attack came were lightly wounded.
CAIRO: Most of Egypt's 180,000 lawyers went on strike to protest the death of a jailed lawyer who was allegedly tortured.
Abdel Hareth Madani died the day after being arrested on April 26 on charges that he had acted as a go-between for imprisoned members of the Islamic militant group Jamaa Islamiyya group and those abroad.
The Egyptian lawyers, who normally work on Sundays, also plan a protest march on a palace of President Hosni Mubarak on Tuesday.
MOSCOW: Georgia does not possess the means to push for a military solution in its breakaway province of Abkhazia and should accept a Moscow-mediated peace accord signed Saturday, President Eduard Shevardnadze said.
In a television address reported by Interfax, Shevardnadze said rejecting the accord would mean pushing for a military solution.
This was "justifiable neither morally nor with regard to our capabilities," he said.
STOCKHOLM: Forty percent of Swedes remain opposed to their country joining the European Union while 34 percent are in favor and 27 percent are undecided, according to results of a monthly poll by the SIFO institute.
The poll results, carried in the daily Goeterborgs-Posten, shows a two percent decrease in the number of those opposed to the union compared to last month.
NAIROBI: Former French minister Bernard Kouchner and officials accompanying him dived into a culvert to take cover when their convoy came under fire as it entered Kigali, A UN spokesman said.
The convoy had just entered Kigali on its way back from Gitarama, south of Kigali, where Kouchner had gone to meet interim government officials, spokesman Moctor Gueye told AFP by telephone from Kigali.
Nobody was wounded, Gueye said, and the gunmen were not identified.

DAMASCUS: US Secretary of State Warren Christopher met twice with Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shara as the official press called for a rapid Israeli withdrawal from the annexed Golan Heights.
Christopher is trying to forge a Syrian-Israeli accord on the Golan, which has been the stumbling block in their negotiations since the Middle East peace process was launched in October 1991.
He left later for Israel.
NAIROBI: The United Nations protested to rebels accused of firing on an army-escorted convoy carrying a French former humanitarian minister on a mercy mission to staunch Rwanda's ethnic bloodbath.
Bernard Kouchner, the founder of the French medical agency Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF; Doctors without Borders), was forced to dive into a ditch for cover when a hail of bullets rained down on his convoy just outside the embattled capital Kigali on Sunday, UN spokesman Moctar Gueye said.
MOSCOW: Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Valery Shmarov requested between six and eight billion dollars to close the controversial Chernobyl nuclear power plant, double the country's previous estimates.
Shmarov, quoted by ITAR-TASS agency, said a decision on the closure of the plant will be taken in July during the Group of Seven meeting in Naples, Italy.
BRUSSELS: European Union foreign ministers were trying to reinforce a shaky new US-Russian-EU initiative to end the two-year war in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
The EU meeting followed agreement in Geneva between the United States, Russia and five EU countries --France, Britain, Germany, Belgium and Greece --to push for a four-month ceasefire and new negotiations.
British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said the plan was just a "first step" that still depended on its acceptance by the Serb, Moslem and Croat forces battling for a bigger share of the former Yugoslavia republic.
GLOUCESTER, England: Rosemary West, wife of accused serial killer Frederick West, was charged with the murder of a sixth young woman in the so-called "House of Horrors" killings.
Police said the latest charge against Rosemary West, 40, concerned the murder of Juanita Mott, who went missing in 1975 at the age of 18 and whose remains were unearthed at the Wests' house.
Frederick West, a 52-year-old stone mason, is charged with the murders of 11 women, including those of his first wife and two daughters.
JOHANNESBURG: A goldminer was killed in fighting between ANC supporters and Zulu Inkatha rivals at the Western Areas mine east of Johannesburg, mine owners Johannesburg Consolidated Investment said.
The death brought to eight the number of miners killed in strife at the mine between backers of the Inkatha Freedom Party and South African President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress (ANC) since April 17, when the campaign for historic all-race elections was still under way.
PARIS: The French airline Air Liberte said it would complain to the commission of the European Union to obtain equal treatment for all airlines at London Heathrow and Paris Orly airports, claiming discrimination at Heathrow.
The German Lufthansa airline meanwhile said it was interested in obtaining landing rights at Orly after France and Britain agreed that British Airways would be allowed to land at the Paris airport until now reserved for French planes.
MOSCOW: An explosion at an arms depot in the Russian Far East blew up 1,600 tonnes of missiles, mines and shells, local administration chief Yevgeni Nazdratenko said in Vladivostok.
The blast on Saturday 100 kilometres (60 miles) from Vladivostok spread over a 10-kilometres (six miles) radius where villages had to be evacuated, he said, quoted by ITAR-TASS news agency.

AFP football briefs on May 16 Svensson gets two-year deal STOCKHOLM: Swedish football coach Tommy Svensson has been given a new two-year deal which will see him stay in charge until the European Championships in 1996.
Svensson took over in 1991 and his original contract lasted until this year.
Bebeto in spot-kick row MADRID: Deportivo La Coruna's Brazilian striker Bebeto has been attacked for ducking a crucial penalty two minutes from the end of the match against Valencia at the weekend which allowed Barcelona to snatch the title on goal difference.
The spotkick was missed by Serbian sweeper Miroslav Djukic.
Greeks set for cup invasion ATHENS: Greek police are preparing for an invasion of 60,000 fans here on Wednesday for the European Cup final between AC Milan and Barcelona.
Cruyff's Barcelona boost MADRID: Barcelona boss Johan Cruyff has given his players a boost before Wednesday's European Cup final against Italians AC Milan by offering new deals to all his out-of-contract players, including Dane Michael Laudrup.

SANTO DOMINGO: Turnout was high as Dominican voters cast ballots for a new president, but some black citizens of Haitian origin were turned away from the polls.
The top two candidates were President Joaquin Balaguer, a blind 87-year-old who has loomed large over the Dominican Republic's politics since dictator Rafael Trujillo was assassinated in 1961, and social democrat Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, 57, who aspires to be the country's first black president.
GENEVA: EU and UN mediators on ex-Yugoslavia set off for Belgrade to seek backing from Serb leaders for a new multinational plan to end the two-year war in Bosnia-Hercegovina, diplomats said.
European Union mediator Lord Owen and his UN counterpart Thorvald Stoltenberg left tasked with persuading Serb leaders to accept a four-month ceasefire in the former Yugoslav republic and fresh negotiations, the sources said.
CORAL GABLES, Florida: Former American tennis star Jennifer Capriati was charged with possession of marijuana after police, who had been tipped off about a "runaway," searched her hotel room in Florida.
The 18-year-old former world top-ten player was released to her attorney after she was charged.

JERICHO, West Bank: US Secretary of State Warren Christopher met Palestinian leaders in a highly symbolic visit to the autonomous Jericho enclave as Arab gunmen shot dead two Israeli settlers.
The secretary became the first foreign dignitary to tour the West Bank oasis since Israeli forces pulled out on Friday, but 60 kilometres (35 miles) to the south, Moslem fundamentalists riddled a settlers' car with bullets.
An anonymous telephone caller to Israel military radio claimed responsibility for the killings in the name of Ezzedin al Kassam, the armed wing of the Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS.
In another development, Israel officially handed over civilian authority to the Palestinians on the Gaza Strip after 27 years of occupation.
NAIROBI: UN plans to send 5,500 peacekeepers back to Rwanda will fail to staunch ethnic bloodshet unless they deploy speedily with armoured vehicles and helicopters, a UN official warned. "
We appeal to the international community to provide proper military equipment immediately," Abdul Kabia, executive director of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda Kabia, told AFP by telephone from Kigali.
The new force will not intervene in fighting between the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) and the army, but may use force to protect civilians being massacred by civilian militias controlled only loosely, if at all, by the government, Kabia said.
Meanwhile, 10 children and a Rwandan woman working for the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) were found hacked to death in the woman's central Kigali home, a UN spokesman said.
ADEN, Yemen: Forces loyal to Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh fought their way closer to this southern stronghold despite meeting fierce resistance, witnesses said.
Artillery battles were raging only 30 kilometers (18 miles) from this port-city, a bastion of Saleh's rival, Vice-President Ali Salem al-Baid.
Northern soldiers loyal to the president were also spotted at the village of Al-Huta, some 25 kilometers (15 miles) from Aden, a city of half a million inhabitants who were becoming increasingly alarmed at the approach of the fighting.
PARIS: Defense Minister Francois Leotard said that France would cut its peacekeeping presence in the former Yugoslavia from 6,800 to about 4,300 by the end of the year. "
Before the end of the year, there will be about 2,500 fewer French soldiers on the territory of the former Yugoslavia," he said in a radio interview.
But a foreign ministry spokesman said the pullout would only be implemented if progress were not made towards a negotiated settlement of the Bosnian conflict and would only come after discussions with UN officials.
MOSCOW: Talks aimed at finalising a ceasefire agreement in the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh broke down here after warring Armenians and Azerbaijanis failed to agree on a final document, Interfax reported.
The agreement brokered by Russia provided for an immediate ceasefire to be followed by the deployment of military observers and 1,800 troops from the Commonwealth of Independent States in the conflict zone.
Interfax quoted Azerbaijani officials as saying Armenians had insisted that the separatist authorities in Nagorno-Karabakh be granted a special political status before withdrawing their troops from Armenian-occupied territories surrounding the enclave.

BEIJING: Chinese authorities briefly detained a leading pro-democracy activist and unleashed a verbal broadside through the state media in a clear signal it would not tolerate unrest ahead of the fifth anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.
In a speech carried on the front page of all major Chinese newspapers, Prime Minister Li Peng warned that the country's immediate future depended crucially on maintaining social stability. "
Without a stable social and political environment, it will be impossible to carry out reforms or construction," he said.
Publication of the speech coincided with the brief detention in Beijing of Wang Dan, a prominent student leader during the 1989 pro-democracy movement.
SARAJEVO: The UN Protection Force said ceasefire violations were becoming increasingly common in Sarajevo, where frequent sniper fire was reported.
Spokesman Rob Annink said shooting in the center of Sarajevo "has been steadily increasing" and was of great concern to the UNPROFOR and the country's warring factions which means those responsible "are probably uncontrolled" elements.
The northern Moslem city of Tuzla was also shelled again, and mortar fire was reported in eastern and western Bosnia.
ROME: The prefect and police chief of the northern Italian town of Vicenza were fired by new Interior Minister Roberto Maroni for allowing a weekend demonstration by neo-Nazis in their town.
Police chief Romano Argegno and prefect Michele De Feis were sacked Monday and have been asked to provide an explanation as to why they allowed some 300 skinheads to demonstrate in Vicenza Saturday screaming racist slogans and bearing swastikas, officials said.

AFP Sport in Brief on May 17 LeMond's Tour card PARIS: Triple winner Greg LeMond was given a wildcard entry into the Tour de France when organisers included his GAN team in the list of 15 squads given direct entry into this year's event.
The first 15 in the world rankings qualify and GAN are 16th.
However, Steven Rooks' TVM team is likely to be included when the remaining five teams are named.
Seven of the first 15 entries are Italian.
Overcrowded Europe ATHENS: European football's governing body UEFA has turned down a FIFA proposal for a world club championship.
UEFA, which said the season was already too crowded, also wants to avoid extra qualifying matches for the 1998 World Cup.
FIFA intends to increase the finalists from 24 to 32 but UEFA wants extra places allocated according to its own group qualifying matches.
It does not want European countries to have to play off against countries from other regions.
Elber for Stuttgart STUTTGART: VfB Stuttgart have paid 3.5 million marks (2.12 million dollars) for Giovane "Elber" de Souza who scored a Swiss record 21 goals last season while on loan from AC Milan to Swiss cup winners Grasshoppers Zurich.
He signed a three-year contract with Stuttgart who finished seventh in the German first division.

GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip: The Israeli army pulled out of its last positions in Gaza City, completing its withdrawal from the autonomous Palestinian territories of the Gaza Strip and Jericho.
Soldiers fired teargas at jeering youths as they left the military adminstration building, the police station and the Hof military camp, where the Border Guards were stationed.
JERUSALEM: Hundreds of Jewish settlers protested against any Israeli pullout from the Golan Heights, as Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin met US Secretary of State Warren Christopher to discuss peace with Syria.
SARAJEVO: Bosnian Serbs fired at least seven shells at Tuzla airport after the first UN plane in a month landed, prompting NATO warplanes to buzz the Moslem city in northeastern Bosnia.
The latest incident came as French Defence Minister Philippe Leotard announced in Paris that France would withdraw more than a third of its 6,900 peacekeepers by the end of the year.
BLANTYRE: Voters flocked to the polls as Malawi held its first multi-party elections since independence, set to end three decades of rule by iron-fisted veteran President Kamuzu Banda.
Offices were deserted as long queues of voters grew before dawn outside polling stations in Blantyre, the economic capital of the southern African nation.
NAIROBI: UN peacekeepers due to be sent back to Rwanda will be powerless to staunch ethnic bloodletting unless they deploy speedily with armoured vehicles and helicopters, a UN official warned.
Abdul Kabia, head of the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda, welcomed the UN Security Council's decision to deploy 5,500 soldiers in stages. "
But we appeal to the international community to provide proper military equipment immediately," Kabia said.
WASHINGTON: The Federal Reserve boosted two key interest rates and appeared to succeed in reassuring financial markets, with analysts predicting the increase would be the last for a while.
The Fed raised the overnight interbank rate half a percentage point from 3.75 percent to 4.25 percent and its discount rate from three to 3.5 percent.
SANTO DOMINGO: Heavily armed elite army troops and police officers fanned out in the Dominican capital to deter unrest amid opposition charges that Monday's presidential vote was marred by fraud.
Leading opposition candidate Jose Francisco Pena Gomez charged fraud and demanded a partial annulment of the vote returns as incumbent President Joaquin Balaguer took a solid first-place lead.
SANAA: Northern Yemeni forces said they had shot down two helicopters from the rival south over a highway leading to Aden.
A military spokesman quoted by the North's official SABA news agency said one of the helicopter pilots was captured.
UNITED NATIONS: The Security Council decided to keep in place the strict trade and diplomatic embargo slapped on Iraq in 1990, diplomats said.
Baghdad has pressed unsuccessfully for at least a partial lifting of the embargo to allow the resumption of oil exports, the major source of hard currency for Iraq.

GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip: The Israeli army withdrew from its last bastion amid a barrage of teargas and rocks, leaving Palestinians to tear down the hated symbols of 27 years of occupation.
As dawn broke on the newly-autonomous territory, cranes moved in to lift away the cement block chicanes which disfigured so many streets.
Celebrating Gazans ripped down the barbed wire which sealed since 1967 roads around the military governor's headquarters, the final building evacuated by the Israelis.
DAMASCUS: President Hafez al-Assad held four hours of talks with US Secretary of State Warren Christopher amid reports Syria had shown a keen interest in an Israeli offer for a phased withdrawal from the disputed Golan Heights.
Christopher arrived from Israel and went straight into talks with Assad, for the second time since Sunday, in an attempt to bridge the gap between the two enemies.
ADEN, Yemen: This southern bastion echoed to the thunder of artillery as fighting between rival Yemeni forces moved markedly closer, triggering fear and a fresh exodus of foreigners, an AFP correspondent reported.
It was the first time the sound of battle could be heard so clearly in the port city, stronghold of Vice-President Ali Salem Baid, whose forces are fighting off President Ali Abdallah Saleh' northern army units.
Northern troops were locked in a bitter struggle with Baid's forces at Al-Anad, site of a strategically important air base 50 kilometers (30 miles) to the north of Aden.
BLANTYRE: Early results in Malawi's first multi-party elections put businessman Bakili Muluzi's United Democratic Front ahead in the presidential race, but showed all three main candidates leading in their regional power bases.
Aging incumbent Hastings Kamuzu Banda, who has ruled Malawi with an iron fist since independence in 1964, was leading in central Malawi base of his Malawi Congress Party, where some 1.45 million people voted.
But Muluzi was reported to have swept the the populous south, where 1.76 million people voted.
SYDNEY: A senior US official confirmed that the United States was considering joining Australia and ASEAN nations in helping the Cambodian government defend itself against a new Khmer Rouge guerrilla offensive.
Winston Lord, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, said the help being considered included "lethal assistance" --military hardware.
In Phnom Penh, Cambodian co-premiers Prince Norodom Ranariddh and Hun Sen said they had agreed to hold peace talks in North Korea with the Khmer Rouge without preconditions in response to an appeal by King Norodom Sihanouk.
JOHANNESBURG: The estimated cost of President Nelson Mandela's ambitious plan to wipe out apartheid's backlogs has more than doubled, South Africa's new governing party, the African National Congress (ANC), said.
Jay Naidoo, minister without portfolio and author of the Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP), told The Star newspaper that the plan will cost 80-90 billion rand (21-24 billion dollars) over five years, compared to the 39 billion rand (10.6 billion dollars) bill the ANC suggested during its campaign for last month's all-race election.
NAIROBI: Rwandan rebels turned their attention away from the capital Kigali and are advancing towards a town to the southwest where the government fled last month, UN officials said.
BONN: German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said that 500,000 people had been slain in Rwanda since ethnic killings erupted between the majority Hutus and minority Tutsis six weeks ago. "
It may not be known, but you can write this down, that according to information we Europeans have 500,000 people have been slain, 500,000 people," he told a press conference.
Aid organisations previously put the figure at around 200,000.
ANKARA: Turkish warplanes attacked a Kurdish rebel camp at Zaleh in northern Iraq in the second such raid this year, military headquarters here said.
It said 19 aircraft took part in the attack 110 kilometres (70 miles) from the border, but had no immediate word on the outcome.

NAIROBI: Rebels tightened the noose around Rwanda's rump government as the United Nations struggled to persuade member states to send troops to end a bloodbath that has killed half a million people, UN sources said.
Guerrillas of the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front have cut the road between the capital Kigali and Gitarama, 40 kilometres (25 miles) to the southwest, where the government fled as carnage engulfed the central African country last month, UN military sources said.
BLANTYRE: The main opposition parties in Malawi's first free elections swept parliamentary races in their regional strongholds and businessman Bakili Muluzi looked set to end the reign of President-for-life Hastings Kamuzu Banda, preliminary results indicated.
Election officials said that vote counting after Tuesday's election had been suspended in some remote regions until Thursday because of transportation problems due to heavy rains and fuel shortages.
SANNA: Northern Yemeni leaders said they intended to blockade the port of Aden to force a surrender, as ousted vice-president Ali Salem al-Baid hinted the two-week-old civil war may tear the country apart.
A northern spokesman said Aden was "almost surrounded" and the city was under a greater threat now that northern troops had seized the vital Al-Anad air base.
CAIRO: US Secretary of State Warren Christopher called on PLO leader Yasser Arafat to stick to pledges to end violence and asked him to explain his recent call for "holy war" to liberate Jerusalem.
In Oslo, Arafat said his reported remarks should not be seen as hostile to Israel but rather an appeal to strive for complete Middle East peace.
DAMASCUS: President Hafez al-Assad held four hours of talks with US Secretary of State Warren Christopher amid reports Syria had shown a keen interest in an Israeli offer for a phased withdrawal from the disputed Golan Heights.
Christopher arrived from Israel and went straight into talks with Assad, for the second time since Sunday, in an attempt to bridge the gap between the two enemies.
CARACAS: Former Venezuelan president Carlos Andres Perez was jailed to face trial for allegedly skimming millions of dollars from the public trough.
Perez, who was suspended from office in May 1993 and became Venezuela's first president to be impeached in August, is the first leader in the Americas to be imprisoned after being elected head of state.
PARIS: Eleven French aid workers detained for over a month by Bosnian Serbs for alleged arms trafficking were freed and flown out of Sarajevo Wednesday after payment of 44,000 dollars.
A spokeswoman for the charity group Premiere Urgence (Emergency Aid), which sent them into Bosnia-Hercegovina, said the 4,000 dollars a head paid by the organisation was "too small to be considered as a ransom."
SARAJEVO: Civilian pilots from three UN aircraft refused to run the gauntlet of Bosnian Serb gunners at Tuzla airport, shelled a day earlier by Serb forces.
The UN Protection Force had scheduled three flights to ferry in radar equipment into Tuzla, a Moslem city in northeastern Bosnia, but a UN spokesman said the Ukrainian pilots refused to take off from Zagreb after the Serbs shelled the airstrip Tuesday just after a UN plane landed.
ROME: Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi scraped through a Senate confidence motion by a single vote, effectively giving his right-wing cabinet the green light as Italy's 53rd post-war government.
WASHINGTON: Indian Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao hailed before Congress a "bold new era" in post-Cold War US-India relations but did not embrace a US plan for capping nuclear weapons production.

MOSCOW: An armed gang killed three Russians and 11 Algerian soldiers in an attack on a bus near the Algerian coastal town of Jijel, a Russian foreign ministry spokesman said. "
A large number of the terrorists were also killed" in the attack, spokesman Grigori Karassin said, adding that Moscow had called on the Algerian government to begin an urgent investigation into it.
DAMASCUS: Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shareh dismissed Israeli peace proposals saying they showed Israel did not want to withdraw from all the Arab lands it occupied during the 1967 Middle East war.
Shareh said the proposals relayed to Syria by US Secretary of State Warren Christopher during his four-day shuttle mission "would not help to achieve progress" in the peace process as they "were based on premeditated Israeli intentions not to withdraw from all the Arab lands occupied in 1967."
SARAJEVO: Bosnia's Moslem-led army has stepped up offensives on the eastern and western fronts in central Bosnia and "feels ready to launch an attack" against separatist Serb forces, UN officials said.
UN spokesmen meanwhile said a UN plane made two safe flights in and out of Tuzla airport, two days after Bosnian Serb artillery shelled the airport when another UN plane landed there.
In Paris French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said the foreign ministers of Russia, the United States and five western European countries would hold a meeting on Bosnia-Hercegovina June 13.
ADEN, Yemen: Northern forces of President Ali Abdallah Saleh tried to lay siege to the key port city of Aden, as the United Nations prepared to send vital aid to trapped Somali refugees.
Artillery battles were raging a few dozens kilometers (miles) of Aden, bastion of southern leader Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid, an AFP correspondent said.
MOSCOW: Russian President Boris Yeltsin has refused to accept the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Shakhrai, who this week was stripped of the portfolio of minister of nationalities, a presidential spokesman said.
Shakhrai had complained he was not consulted in advance about the new nationalities minister, the governor of the southern Krasnodar region Nikolai Yegorov, and said he could not remain in the government.
KIEV: Ukraine launched consultations with US, Russian and Crimean officials on a controversial plan to impose presidential rule in Crimea, an aide to Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk said.
The official, who asked not to be named, said that talks were launched after at least 1,000 special interior ministry troops and members of the national guard arrived in Crimea to place local law-enforcement forces under their control.
The troops were sent as the Crimean parliament convened to vote on reinstating a 1992 constitutional provision stipulating that relations between central authorities in Ukraine and Crimea were to be governed by treaties.
BLANTYRE: President Kamuzu Banda, who has ruled Malawi for three decades, bowed out in favour of Moslem businessman Bakili Muzuli after the country's first multi-party elections.
Muluzi, the leader of the opposition United Democratic Front, was a clear winner in the presidential poll, Banda conceded in a state radio broadcast, before official results were released.
BEIJING: China warned the United States not to attach any conditions to renewal of its MFN status, saying such an action would have an "adverse influence" on bilateral ties.
A foreign ministry spokeswoman said most favoured nation trade status was "a reciprocal and a mutually beneficial trade arrangement." "
Any move which runs counter to this will undermine the foundation for the economic and trade relations between the two countries and will have adverse influences on Sino-US relations," she said.
KABUL: At least 20 people were killed and 30 wounded in the Afghan capital, when a rocket hit a crowded checkpoint controlled by Prime Minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-i-Islami forces, witnesses said.
NAIROBI: Some 30 wounded people were killed in their beds when mortar shells slammed into Kigali's overcrowded main hospital, the Red Cross said, in the latest tragedy in the battle for the Rwandan capital.
Hospital officials said a shell landed directly on a tent packed with patients, which was erected in a courtyard to cope with a massive influx of people with machete and gunshot wounds, the survivors of six weeks of ethnic carnage that has killed half a million people.
CAIRO: More than 500 people were rescued as a fire swept through a Red Sea ferry sailing from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, to Suez, in Egypt, leaving five people dead and around 20 missing, officials said.

WASHINGTON: North Korea has started removing fuel rods from a nuclear reactor with no international inspectors present and may have acquired plutonium for its suspected nuclear weapons program.
US officials were told of the action by International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors who visited the reactor site.
The IAEA inspectors had hoped to convince North Korea to allow them to be present to ensure the plutonium in the fuel rods was not diverted to military uses.
ADEN, Yemen: Two ground-to-ground SCUD missiles ripped into the southern Yemeni capital Aden, injuring four people, in the first missile strike on the city since civil war broke out on May 5.
One of the missiles hit the airport and the other landed in a residential area in the northeast of the city.
The attacks triggered panic in the southern suburbs, as residents took shelter on the lower floors and in the stairwells of apartment blocks.
NAIROBI: About 30 wounded survivors of Rwanda's civil war died in their beds when rebels shelled Kigali's main hospital, and a Swiss doctor was wounded by rebel rocket fire.
The UN headquarters was also pounded by mortars in the heaviest fighting in Kigali for 10 days, but nobody was hurt, UN military commander General Romeo Dallaire said.
In the latest tragedy in the battle for the Rwandan capital, eight or nine mortar shells slammed into the Kigali general hospital, killing 30 patients in a tent erected in a courtyard to cope with a huge influx of people.
SARAJEVO: Britain and Spain joined France in warning they might pull their troops out of Bosnia unless serious peace talks took place, as defiant Moslem forces stepped up their offensive on several fronts.
UN Protection Force spokesman Rob Annink said the mainly-Moslem Bosnian army was strengthening its positions on both the eastern and western fronts in central Bosnia and "feels ready to launch an attack" against Serb forces.
WASHINGTON: US-Japan trade talks made some progress in ending a three-month deadlock.
A spokeswoman for the US government said the exploratory talks were being pursued "diligently" by both sides and that they would resume Friday.
Earlier in the day US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor had said the talks were off to a good start.
NEW YORK: Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis received last rites from a Roman Catholic priest after leaving hospital to return home when doctors said they could do nothing more for for the cancer-striken widow of John Kennedy and Aristotle Onassis.
Her son John Kennedy Jr. and daughter Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg were with their mother as relatives gathered at Onassis' Fifth Avenue apartment.
New York Hospital said she was suffering from "serious complications of her malignant lymphoma" and received further diagnostic evaluation and treatment before being released Wednesday.
WASHINGTON: Indian Prime Minister R.V. Narasimha Rao and President Bill Clinton took a major step in improving strained relations between the two countries.
Rao's visit to the United States was the first by an Indian prime minister since 1987 and was hoped to help mend strained relations over what India has perceived as neglect by Washington.
Clinton highlighted their common goals, notably the success of Rao's economic liberalization and potential trade between the two countries that last year totalled seven billion dollars.

EREZ, Gaza Strip: Palestinian Moslem fundamentalists killed two Israeli sergeants on reserve duty in bursts of gunfire at an army post on the edge of the Gaza Strip before dawn Friday, military officials said.
They were the first Jewish soldiers killed since Israel and the PLO signed an accord on May 4 to launch autonomy.
The Israeli army responded by announcing that they would seal off the Gaza Strip until May 29.
Palestinian self-rule will be over unless the PLO prevents such attacks, Israeli leaders warned.
SIMFEROPOL, Ukraine: The Crimean parliament adopted a new constitution that amounted to a declaration of independence from Ukraine.
The constitution establishes treaty relations between Kiev and Crimea and Crimean citizenship, and provides for forming a local militia force.
Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk said Kiev would intervene if necessary to keep Crimea and its Russian majority inside the country.
But Russian President Boris Yeltsin said he told Kravchuk, "There cannot be in any instance any forceful actions undertaken against Crimea," adding: "Crimea is a sovereign republic within Ukraine and has the right to its own political stand and the right to make its own decisions."
SANAA: Northern Yemeni forces stepped up the pressure on the Aden power base of Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid and warned that their artillery was now within striking range of the southern port.
Military spokesmen in Sanaa accused Baid of abandoning Aden to its fate as northern troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh closed in on the southern port city, but they gave assurances that civilian areas would not be targeted.
WASHINGTON: American leaders praised former first lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who died of cancer late Thursday, for her courage and grace following the assassination of her husband, former president John Kennedy. "
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was a model of courage and dignity for all Americans and the World," President Bill Clinton said in a statement echoed by Onassis' frieds, relatives and other public figures across the country.
DUBLIN: A top official in Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, welcomed London's reply to the organisation's queries on an Anglo-Irish peace declaration for Northern Ireland and its offer to hold a referendum on the territory's future as a "positive signal" but said it would not bring a quick stop to IRA's anti-British campaign. "
It would be very begrudging indeed not to recognize the fact that each of our 20 questions have been addressed by the government and that in itself is a positive signal," Mitchel MacLaughlin said in a radio interview, but he added that "the conditions that will render the IRA campaign redundant are still a long way off."
SEOUL: Top South Korean officials expressed optimism that North Korea's decision to start refuelling a nuclear reactor in violation of international inspection requirements would not scuttle negotiations on the dispute.
Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo, now in Hanoi, was quoted by Korean journalists travelling with him as saying that despite the refuelling, chances of Washington and Pyongyang sitting down for talks were still "high."
The talks would have been scuttled if the International Atomic Energy Agency found the refuelling had gone beyond the critical stage and checking for diversion of spent fuel into nuclear weapons was no longer possible, US officials said.
NAIROBI: Fighting kept up through the night in the Rwandan capital Kigali, much of it around the airport where the United Nations has stopped flying in any planes, a UN spokesman said.
The sporadic artillery and mortar exchanges between government troops and the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) were less intense than on Thursday, which saw the heaviest fighting in Kigali in 10 days, said Abdul Kabia, spokesman for the UN Assistance Mission in Rwanda (UNAMIR).

WASHINGTON: International inspectors have concluded that North Korea has not diverted fuel from a nuclear reactor for use in weapons, Defense Secretary William Perry said.
Perry said that North Korea's move to begin removing fuel rods despite objections by the International Atomic Energy Agency "does not mean that the spent fuel is being diverted for weapons purposes."
GENEVA: Hundreds of thousands of people are fleeing central Rwanda amid an upsurge in heavy fighting in the capital Kigali and elsewhere in the country, an International Committee of the Red Cross spokesman (ICRC) said.
The ICRC appealed for UN peacekeepers to be sent in as quickly as possible and humanitarian corridors to be established throughout the central African state.
ADEN, Yemen: Aden authorities proclaimed an independent state in South Yemen, 16 days after becoming embroiled in a civil war with northern government forces.
Announcing the secession from the north after one of the bloodiest days of fighting since the conflict began, the south's leader Ali Salem al-Baid said in a televised address: "I proclaim the creation of the Yemeni Democratic Republic as an independent state with its capital in Aden."
KIEV: Ukrainian lawmakers suspended the constitution of independence-leaning Crimea, parliamentary sources said, after Crimean deputies adopted a basic law tantamount to a declaration of independence from Kiev.
In the closed-session vote, Ukrainian deputies gave the pro-Russian Crimean assembly 10 days to "conform with the laws and constitution of Ukraine."
WASHINGTON: US-Japan talks aimed at breaking a three-month deadlock in trade negotiations are going well and will be extended into a third day, a senior US official said.
WASHINGTON: The United States and Vietnam agreed to establish liaison offices as a step toward normalizing relations nearly two decades after the end of the Vietnam War, the State Department said.
JOHANNESBURG: South African President Nelson Mandela met ministers to discuss reports that former president Frederik de Klerk handed vast tracts of land to Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini in a secret deal made days before the election.
Land Affairs Minister Derek Hanekom told the domestic news agency SAPA that the deal was due to be discussed between Mandela and De Klerk, now Mandela's deputy, on Monday.
PORT-AU-PRINCE: Haiti braced for tough UN-ordered international sanctions amid complaints that the near-total trade embargo would hurt the poorest residents of the hemisphere's most impoverished county.
HONG KONG: China has again rejected US allegations that it is still exporting prison labor products in defiance of two bilateral agreements, the official Xinhua news agency said.
A senior official of the Chinese judicial department said it was "entirely false" that factories in China were "prison-labour factories," and said no prisoner-made goods had been exported to the United States.

VIENNA: North Korea agreed to the visit of a new high-level mission of the International Atomic Energy Agency to discuss the removal of fuel rods from its Yongbyon nuclear complex, the IAEA announced.
The mission which is composed of senior safeguards officials will leave Vienna Sunday and arrive in North Korea Tuesday.
Press reports in New York meanwhile said the United States would reopen high-level talks with North Korea after administration officials decided the North had met key demands for international nuclear inspections.
BEIRUT: Israel abducted a leading Moslem fundamentalist guerrilla chief from his home in eastern Lebanon in a pre-dawn raid bidding to unravel the mystery surrounding a missing Israeli airman.
Mustafa Dirani is accused by the Israelis of having captured Ron Arad in 1986, one of six Israelis missing in Lebanon since 1982 but the only one still thought to be alive.
Israel feted the "bold and pinpoint" operation in which the pro-Iranian Islamic leader was seized.
A government source said the raid had been authorised at a special meeting of the inner cabinet Thursday.
SANAA: Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh called off a ceasefire and vowed to capture the southern key port of Aden after the south declared independence following more than two weeks of civil war.
His southern rival, Vice President Ali Salem al-Baid, announced in a televised address that he was proclaiming the creation of the Yemeni Democratic Republic (YDR) as an independent state with its capital in Aden.
MOSCOW: Ukraine wrote to the United Nations and NATO, whose Partnership for Peace program its joined recently, warning that moves by its secessionist Crimean republic threatened regional peace and stability, ITAR-TASS reported.
The message signed by Ukrainian Foreign Miniter Anatoli Zlenko said Ukraine "reserved the right" to take all necessary measures to safeguard its borders.
BELFAST: The Irish Republican Army said that it had executed a man near Armagh, southwest of Belfast, because he had been spying on one of its militants.
Sources said the dead man was believed to be a British soldier.
Police said they located the body of a man in a field near Armagh but were slowed down in collecting and identifying the corpse by fears that mines or other booby-traps might have been planted nearby.
TIRANA: Albania's last communist president, Ramiz Alia, and nine of his top aides went on trial for ordering summary executions and taking money from the public coffers.
The charges of criminal abuse of office also cover the shooting of fleeing refugees at the border and deportations.
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip: Joint Israeli and Palestinian patrols began operating in the newly-autonomous Gaza Strip, the head of the Palestinian police force Nasr Yussef said.
Nine began to patrol in the Strip and two were operating in the self-rule enclave of Jericho on the West Bank, a Palestinian police source said.
NAIROBI: Fierce battles between Rwanda's army and rebel fighters shook Kigali, preventing relief planes from landing and halting United Nations' efforts to pave the way for a new peacekeeping mission.
Rebel headquarters in the old parliament building took a vicious pounding from government mortars and howitzers, a UN spokesman said.
The rebels responded with a small arms attack on army positions around the airport.
BLANTYRE: Malawians descended on Blantyre's football stadium for the inauguration of President-elect Bakili Muluzi after workers spent the night tearing down pictures and other references to long-term ruler Hastings Kamuzu Banda.

VIENNA: North Korea has agreed to the visit of a new high-level mission of the International Atomic Energy agency to discuss the removal of fuel rods from its controversial Yongbyon nuclear complex, the IAEA announced.
The mission which is composed of senior safeguards officials will leave Vienna Sunday and arrive in North Korea Tuesday.
NAIROBI: Fierce battles between Rwanda's army and rebel fighters shook Kigali Saturday, preventing relief planes from landing and halting United Nations' efforts to pave the way for a new peacekeeping mission.
Rebel headquarters in the old parliament building took a vicious pounding from government mortars and howitzers, a UN spokesman said.
The rebels responded with a small arms attack on army positions around the airport, spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
SANAA: Yemen's rival armies were locked in a fight to the finish Sunday after President Ali Abdallah Saleh vowed to crush an independence declaration by his southern foes.
Fighting in the civil war was concentrated on the approaches to the key southern bastion of Aden, which Saleh vowed to capture after his former vice president, Ali Salem al-Baid, declared it the capital of a breakaway state.
ZAGREB: UN special envoy to ex-Yugoslavia, Yasushi Akashi, has written to the warring parties in Bosnia calling for a speedy resumption of talks on a republic-wide ceasefire, the UN Protection Force said.
In letters sent to Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic and Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic the UN special representative proposed "a framework for an immediate end to fighting which includes provisions for the disengagement of forces and the interpositioning of UNPROFOR between those forces."
KIEV: Ukraine said it would not use force against Crimea unless separatists there resort to armed provocation after telling the United Nations and NATO that moves by the secessionist republic threatened regional peace and stability.
Ukrainian Foreign Miniter Anatoli Zlenko wrote to the United Nations and NATO warning that his country "reserved the right," should the situation deteriorate, to take all necessary measures to safeguard its borders, but did not state what these would be, ITAR-TASS news agency said.
BEIRUT: Anti-Israeli militants vowed to step up their fight against Israel after commandos kidnapped a Moslem guerrilla chief in Syrian-controlled eastern Lebanon to try to win back a missing Israeli airman.
Airborne Israeli commandos flew into the Bekaa Valley under cover of darkness and snatched Mustafa Dirani from his home in Qsarnabaa in a pre-dawn raid on Saturday.
The Iranian-backed Hezbollah said in a statement after the operation the abduction "will not deter us from continuing to liberate our land whatever the cost."
PALERMO, Sicily: Italian prosecutors demanded that seven-time Christian Democrat prime minister Giulio Andreotti be indicted on charges of collusion with the Mafia.
The Palermo prosecutors office made its request to local judges after an investigation launched in March 1992 into the senator's alleged links to the Sicilian Mafia.
SANTO DOMINGO: Faced with opposition charges of fraud, the Dominican Republic's national electoral board announced a vote-by-vote recount of ballots cast in Monday's presidential election.

NAIROBI: The mainly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) seized Kigali airport and the government-held nearby Camp Kanombe barracks, UN officials announced.
Hundreds of people fled the camp after the rebels took the airport following days of intense shelling.
The Hutu government barracks accommodated up to 4,000 troops until recently and were the biggest in the Rwandan capital, according to a UN estimate.
ADEN, Yemen: Northern troops turned up the heat on Aden as a missile slammed into the newly-declared Yemeni Democratic Republic's capital, but the south vowed to defend its independence and crush the north's advance.
The missile explosion killed four people and injured nine, all from the same family, rescue workers and hospitals said.
HEBRON, West Bank: Israeli troops shot dead a wanted Moslem fundamentalist and captured four other suspects during a siege in the mosque massacre town of Hebron, military officials said.
One Israeli border policeman was also wounded when he was hit in the head by a stone during clashes with youths which erupted after the shootout.
JERUSALEM: Israel state radio stirred up another storm broadcasting a speech in which PLO chairman Yasser Arafat allegedly says the autonomy agreement is a ruse to capture Jerusalem.
The comment was made during an address Arafat gave in a Johannesburg mosque on May 10 when he also called for a holy war to liberate Jerusalem, according to the radio.
BRUSSELS: The British Labour group at the European Parliament threatened to block the investiture of the new European Commission if Italian neo-fascists are appointed to it.
The threat came in a letter from the head of the Labour group of MEPs, Pauline Green, to British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd.
Italy's new government headed by media magnate Silvio Berlusconi contains five neo-fascist ministers.
JERUSALEM: Israel stepped up security fearing Hezbollah attacks as the interrogation of a kidnapped Shiite Moslem leader gave the first answers on a missing airman, the army and state radio reported.
The questioning of Mustafa Dirani, head of the pro-Iranian "Resistance of the Faithful," who was snatched in a daring airborne raid in Lebanon Saturday, was taking place "somewhere in Israel," military officials said.
TOKYO: The top leader of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) indicated that the second largest opposition force was ready to return to Japan's ruling coalition if Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata resigned. "
It's one way (to return to power) if we can have a change to discuss the framework of a new coalition after the Hata cabinet resigns en bloc," SDP chairman Tomiichi Murayama was quoted as saying at a meeting in Fukushima Prefecture, north of here.
BELGRADE: Bosnian Croat forces shelled the Serb-held Bosnian town of Brcko in northern Bosnia, injuring five people and causing major material damage, the Belgrade news agency Tanjug said.
One of the injured had to have a leg amputated after six shells rained down from Croat lines at Orasje, some eight kilometres (five miles) to the west of the town centre late Saturday.

BELGRADE: Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic agreed unconditionally to resume peace talks, the Serb SRNA agency said.
The pledge to attend a new round of negotiations was in response to a call from Yasushi Akashi, the United Nations special representative in ex-Yugoslavia.
In letters to Karadzic and Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic, Akashi proposed disarming the warring parties and deploying a UN force to separate them.
LONDON: Crimean authorities said reinforcements were deployed to guard key installations in the republic's capital, Simferopol, as 29 Ukrainian armoured troop carriers reportedly entered the city, the ITAR-TASS agency said.
In a report monitored by the BBC, a Crimean presidential spokesman said security was stepped up around key government buildings to counter the perceived threat.
But a senior Ukrainian official denied reports the armoured vehicles were deployed at Simferopol station.
BEIJING, May 22
-A senior communist party official warned that public order in China has gravely deteriorated this year and urgent steps are required to prevent serious unrest.
The director of the party's Central Committee for Comprehensive Management of Public Security, Ren Jianxin, said there was mass discontent in many rural areas where incomes have failed to keep pace with inflation and where resentment is growing over regional disparities in living standards.

NAIROBI: Kigali's guns fell silent as Rwanda's army and rebels stopped firing to allow a visiting UN envoy to pave the way for the deployment of thousands of peacekeepers, a UN spokesman said.
Special envoy Iqbal Riza held talks with the rebels after a night of heavy shelling and the capture of Kigali airport and a key army barracks by the rebels Sunday.
Thousands of rotting bodies of victims of Rwanda's bloodbath meanwhile washed up on the shores of Lake Victoria, forcing Uganda to declare the area a disaster zone, state radio reported.
Because of the risk of epidemics, Uganda's government declared parts of three districts near the Rwandan border disaster areas.
SANAA: Northern Yemeni forces said they were in control of Ateq, capital of eastern Shabwa province and a key southern military base in an oil-rich desert region.
Its capture puts the entire province's military installations under northern control.
A southern military spokesman in Aden said the claim was "totally unfounded."
SARAJEVO: Bosnian Serb commanders failed to pull 150 armed policemen out of the eastern town of Gorazde this weekend, as agreed, the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) reported.
The Serbs' failure to abide by the Gorazde accord could torpedo the resumption of peace talks on Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Under the agreement signed Saturday between Lieutenant General Sir Michael Rose, the commander of UN troops in Bosnia, and Bosnian Serb military leader Manojlo Milovanovic, the Serbs were to redeploy the 150 men outside the exclusion zone by 6:00 p.m. (1600 GMT).
JERUSALEM: Israel demanded a written commitment to the Palestinian self-rule deal from PLO leader Yasser Arafat after his claim that the accord could be broken.
It threatened to break off negotiations to broaden Palestinian autonomy if he failed to do so.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin wanted Arafat's pledge that "the PLO will adhere to the (autonomy) agreement signed in Cairo" along with the September 13 Declaration of Principles and the mutual recognition accord.

BERLIN: Roman Herzog, the candidate of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's ruling Christian Democratic Union led the first two rounds of voting by a special federal assembly to choose a German president.
Herzog, the conservative chairman of the country's constitutional court, won 604 of the 1,317 votes cast by the specially-convened 1,324-member assembly of federal members of parliament and delegates of the 16 German regional legislatures.
The Social Democrats' candidate Johannes Rau won 505 votes, the liberal Free Democrats' candidate Hildegard Hamm-Bruecher won 132 and the independent candidate Jens Reich won 62 votes.
Reich pulled out after the first round.
MOSCOW: British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd and his Russian counterpart Andrei Kozyrev discussed the crisis in Crimea during talks at the weekend, the ITAR-TASS news agency reported.
Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin prepared to meet here with his Ukrainian counterpart Efim Zviagilsky to discuss the separatist conflict in the peninsula one day ahead of crucial talks in Kiev between Ukrainian and secessionist leaders.
The meetings come amid reports of a military build-up in the Russian-speaking republic following Friday's decision by the Crimean parliament to restore a 1992 constitution, a move viewed by Kiev as tantamount to an independence declaration.
TOKYO: North Korea indicated it was willing to rejoin the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and widen access to nuclear sites, if the United States abandons its "hostile" attitude.
The official newspaper the Workers' Daily, quoted by the official news agency KCNA received here, rounded on Washington, accusing it of triggering the crisis on the Korean peninsula by refusing to hold a new round of talks with the North.
MADRID: Military engineer Lieutenant Miguel Peralta Utrera, a 47-year-old father of four, was killed when a bomb destroyed his car as he drove out of the Spanish capital, police said.
Police blamed the blast on the outlawed Basque separatist guerilla movement ETA, but no group claimed responsibility for the attack.

CAPE TOWN: The new South African government set up a panel to examine a controversial deal in which the former administration signed over vast tracts of land to Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini.
The arrangement, which gives 1.2 million hectares (2.96 million acres) of land to the KwaZulu Ingonyama Trust held by King Goodwill was signed by then-president De Klerk on April 25, the day before the start of South Africa's historic first democratic poll.
Senior ANC officials said they and Mandela were unaware of the deal, which they say violates a moratorium on the disposal of state land and could jeopardise future land reform programs.
WASHINGTON: The United States reaffirmed its support for a unified Ukraine facing a secessionist Crimean peninsula in a letter from Secretary of State Warren Christopher.
Addressing the Crimean parliament's vote Friday to secede from the Ukraine, Christopher said he "recognized the responsible and conciliatory approach that Ukraine has adopted thus far and urged the Ukrainian government to continue to exercise restraint."
The Ukraine has refused to honor the Crimean parliament's decision to restore a 1992 constitution, seen by Kiev as tantamount to a declaration of independence.
BERLIN: Roman Herzog of the conservative Christian Union party was elected German president by a special federal assembly after the Free Democrat party withdrew its candidate and backed him.
Herzog, 60, won 696 votes, an absolute majority of the 1,324-member assembly, in the third and final round of voting by federal members of parliament and regional delegates gathered in the historic Berlin Reichstag.
LISBON: Portuguese opposition parties called on Interior Minister Dias Loureiro to resign following a scandal involving the country's SIS intelligence services.
Loureiro said he had accepted the resignation of SIS director-general Ladeiro Monteiro and dismissed the service's regional director in Madeira, Joao Evangelista, two days after the press published the conclusions of an official enquiry into allegations by Madeira's prosecutor general that the SIS had pried into his private life and into the affairs of other magistrates.

MECCA, Saudi Arabia: A stampede during the annual Moslem pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia killed around 200 pilgrims, witnesses said.
They were trampled to death Monday during a ritual known as "stoning the devil" in Mina, a town 10 kilometres (six miles) east of Mecca.
Iran's Kayhan daily, quoting its correspondent in Mecca, reported that 700 people had perished, including six Iranians.
NAIROBI: A UN envoy arrived held talks in Kigali with Rwandan army commanders to pave the way for a new UN peacekeeping mission in Rwanda, despite rebel objections.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza, met rebel leaders in their northern stronghold of Mulindi Monday but was unable to reach agreement with them on the size of a planned UN force, spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
The rebels object to the UN's plan to send 5,500 peacekeepers to Rwanda and maintain that 2,500 soldiers will be enough to escort relief convoys.
In Geneva, the UN Commission on Human Rights went into special session to discuss the slaughter in Rwanda and was expected to appoint a special rapporteur to make recommendations on ways to end it.
WASHINGTON: The United States and Japan agreed to resume bilateral trade negotiations ending a three-month deadlock, US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor announced.
Kantor said US President Bill Clinton had spoken with Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata for about 15 minutes immediately before the announcement.
Kantor said that the Japanese side had reiterated its commitment to continue to promote demand-led growth and produce a highly significant decrease in its current account surplus.
SANAA: Rescuers dug through the rubble for survivors after a missile pulverized houses and damaged a hospital, killing at least 13 people and wounding more than 100 in the Yemen capital, officials said.
The missile was fired by forces loyal to southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid who have been at war since May 5 with troops backing Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh, a northerner, they added.
KIEV: Ukrainian and Crimean legislatures agreed not to act on imflammatory resolutions which have sparked a five-day political crisis, the head of a Ukrainian delegation to bilateral talks here said.
Boris Oleinik said the delegations agreed to "refrain from any new measures" which might aggravate the situation following talks by Crimea's parliamentary speaker Sergei Tsekov and his Ukrainian counterpart Alexander Moroz.
Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk meanwhile accused his Russian opposite number Boris Yeltsin of violating international law by intervening in the political crisis between Ukraine and its separatist republic of Crimea. "
The Russian president may warn his own institutions but not the president of another state," Kravchuk said.
Yeltsin last week called on Ukraine not to use force in responding to Crimea's decision to restore a 1992 constitution which grants the predominantly Russian-populated republic on the Black Sea greater autonomy from Kiev.

BRUSSELS: Russia intends to sign unconditionally NATO's Partnership for Peace plan of military cooperation with countries of the former Soviet bloc, Defence Minister Pavel Grachev said.
His surprise announcement, after a meeting with NATO defence ministers, contradicted Russia's previous assertions that it would not join the plan unless NATO also offered Moscow special political links with the alliance.
MECCA, Saudi Arabia: More than 200 pilgrims, mostly Asians and Africans, were killed in a stampede as disaster struck again at the annual Moslem pilgrimage to Mecca, officials and witnesses said.
Saudi authorities said the pilgrims were trampled to death in stifling heat on Monday during a ritual known as "stoning the devil" in Mina, a town 10 kilometres (six miles) east of Mecca, in the east of the kingdom.
NAIROBI: Thousands of terrified Hutus streamed out of Kigali fearing an expected rebel takeover as a UN envoy arrived to pave the way for the return of UN peacekeepers despite rebel objections.
The envoy, Iqbal Riza, held talks with army commanders in Rwanda's blood-drenched capital, where a fragile truce observed by both sides during his visit largely held despite sporadic shelling, UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
ADEN, Yemen: Secessionist forces in Yemen claimed to have beaten back troops loyal to President Ali Abdallah Saleh towards the western border of the southern breakaway state proclaimed in Aden.
Radio Aden quoting a southern military spokesman said southern troops had "pushed back enemy units towards the western border of South Yemen" in the region of Kharaz-Bab al-Mandeb on the Gulf of Aden.
WASHINGTON: The United States and Japan broke a three-month deadlock in trade talks but all that has been agreed so far is the ground rules for resuming negotiations on ways to open Japan's markets. "
I am pleased to announce a resumption of the framework negotiations between the US and Japan," US Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said.

ZAGREB: Troops from the mainly Moslem Bosnian government have stepped up attacks on Serb-held positions in northern Bosnia, UN Protection Force spokesman Matthew Nerzig said.
The spokesman said there were indications the fighting near Tesanj, a Moslem-held town, "could represent a significant increase in offensive actions" by the Bosnian army.
WASHINGTON: President Bill Clinton said he was close to making a final decision on whether or not to renew China's most favored nation trade status.
Clinton added that he expected to make an announcement before he leaves for Europe on June 1.
WASHINGTON: US warships fired warning shots at two vessels off the coast of Haiti as part of the enforcement of the UN embargo on the Haitian regime, but one of them still broke the blockade, officials said.
Meanwhile, the House of Representatives voted against a US invasion of Haiti but backed the use of a tiny Haitian island as a base for exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
NEW YORK: A federal judge sentenced four Moslem fundamentalists to 240 years each in prison for the bombing of the World Trade Center last year, saying he expected them to die behind bars.
Mohammed Salameh, 26, Mahmud Abouhalima, 34, Nidal Ayyad, 26, and Ahmad Ajaj, 28, were convicted March 4 of all counts in the February 26, 1993 attack, which killed six people and injured more than 1,000.
CAPE TOWN: With one of the healing, inspirational speeches that have become his trademark, Nelson Mandela opened South Africa's first all-race parliament, appealing to all to get down to work and help build a free and prosperous country.

SIDON, Lebanon: Israeli warplanes raided two villages in south Lebanon where the pro-Iranian Hezbollah guerrillas are entrenched, police said.
The fighter bombers fired missiles at Kfar Rumman and Suweida, villages facing the central sector of Israel's "security zone," police said.
SANAA: The government in Sanaa has begun a dialogue with senior officials in the southern Yemen Socialist Party (YSP) in a bid to achieve a political solution to the conflict in Yemen, Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani said.
Speaking to reporters in Sanaa, Iryani said contacts were being made through Mujahid Yahya Abu Shuwarib, a deputy prime minister and leader of the Hashed tribe.
But he ruled out any negotiation with President Ali Abdallah Saleh's rival Ali Salem al-Baid and former prime minister Haidar Abubakr al-Attas, whom he described as "the engineer of the conflict."
NAIROBI: Rwanda's army and rebels fought fierce artillery battles in Kigali, delaying talks between a special UN envoy and the rump government to plan the return of peacekeepers, a UN spokesman said.
The fighting, in which several civilians were killed and injured, flared after two days of relative calm, broken by occasional shelling and small arms fire, as both sides observed a partial truce during the visit of UN envoy Iqbal Riza, UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
TALLOIRES, France: Bosnia's warring factions held talks with members of an international contact group from the United States, Russia and the European Union on a peace proposal dividing Bosnia-Hercegovina between separatist Serbs and a Moslem-Croat federation.
The meeting aimed to reach an agreement on the future carve-up of Bosnia alongside a general four-month ceasefire, as a prelude to a permanent peace.
BRUSSELS: Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev said Russia wanted regular political consultations on European and global security with NATO on a regular and emergency basis as part of its future relations with the Atlantic alliance under the partnership for peace program.
Grachev was speaking at a meeting of defence ministers from the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation with their counterparts from the former Soviet bloc.
US Defense Secretary William Perry said Grachev had given an "excellent presentation" on Russia's new non-aggressive post-Cold War military doctrine, and expressed pleasure at Russia's pledge to join the partnership for peace.
VIENNA: Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) have completed their inspection of a North Korean nuclear experimental reprocessing facility after taking samples, IAEA officials said.
The samples should allow the IAEA to determine whether plutonium could have been manufactured or diverted to the Yongbyon laboratory, possibly for use in making nuclear bombs.

WASHINGTON: President Bill Clinton will renew China's US trade privileges but also likely impose limited sanctions for Beijing's human rights abuses, informed sources said.
They said the sanctions could involve a ban on imports of weapons and ammunition made by the Chinese military.
Washington might also establish a US commission to monitor China's progress on human rights.
An official announcement could come before the weekend said sources.
UNITED NATIONS: Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali blamed the international community for allowing the slaughter in Rwanda, which he called genocide.
He said he still hoped that 5,500 UN troops would be able to land in the east African country. "
All of us are responsible for this failure," he said.
ADEN: Two leaders of the south Yemen separatist state said they were ready to enter into peace talks provided northern forces halted their offensive and withdrew behind the pre-unification frontier.
But in Sanaa, President Ali Abdallah Saleh said the war that broke out on May 5 between the forces of the former Marxist south and the conservative north would continue until the "separatist gang" was wiped out.
TALLOIRES, France: Moslem-Croat Federation delegates to all-party Bosnia peace talks have agreed to negotiate dividing up the republic on the basis of percentages set by their hosts, a Croat source said.
Bosnian Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic, Vice President Ejup Ganic, and Bosnian Croat leader Kresimir Zubak agreed to base further discussions on the 51 percent of territory earmarked for their federation by the international contact group hosting the talks, the source said.
ANNAPOLIS, Maryland: President Bill Clinton said he strongly opposed the US going it alone and ending the arms embargo in the former Yugoslavia without backing from the European allies.
Clinton has long supported lifting the UN-imposed arms embargo to help the outgunned Bosnian Moslem forces even the balance in the Balkans war.
But he said he adamantly opposed unilaterally breaking the embargo, saying this "would kill the peace process."
WASHINGTON: US troops were exposed to Iraqi chemical and possibly biological agents during the Gulf war, afflicting tens of thousands of veterans with a mysterious ailment, a congressional study concluded.
Senior Pentagon officials said, however, there was no evidence US troops were exposed to Iraqi chemical attacks and discounted the possibility of exposure from fallout from allied bombings of Iraqi chemical or biological weapon sites.
WASHINGTON: Secretary of State Warren Christopher and his Israeli counterpart Shimon Peres urged Palestine Liberation Organization chief Yasser Arafat to reaffirm support for the Mideast peace process.
The demand was sparked by Arafat's call in Johannesburg for a holy war to liberate Jerusalem.
He later said he had used the word "jihad" in its religious, not political, sense.
UNITED NATIONS: The 15-member Security Council voted unanimously to put an immediate end to the 17-year-old mandatory UN arms embargo on South Africa.
The council also voted to dissolve a council security committee created in 1977 to handle the South African issue, which played a key role in the anti-apartheid movement at the United Nations in the 1970's and 1980's.
DUBLIN: Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds flew to London for talks with his British counterpart John Major on setting up new multi-party talks on Northern Ireland, a government spokesman said.
The informal meeting Thursday will allow the two leaders to assess the progress in their respective governments' efforts to produce a document setting out the main lines for possible multi-party talks on Northern Ireland, the spokesman said.
SANTO DOMINGO: The top opposition candidate in the Dominican Republic's allegedly fraud-marred presidential vote pledged to take his fight to the United Nations and Organization of American States.
No winner has been announced in the May 16 vote, which Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, 57, says were rigged to keep him from becoming the country's first black president this century.

HANOI: Vietnam and the United States have agreed to open diplomatic offices in their capitals in a major step towards resuming full relations 19 years after Washington pulled out the country, the foreign ministry announced.
US Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord and Vice Foreign Minister Le Mai exchanged letters on May 20 and 21 agreeing to the opening of liaison offices in Hanoi and Washington, it said.
Vietnam described the move as "an important step in the normalisation of relations providing both governments with favourable conditions to continue the resolution of issues of common concern."
NAIROBI: Rwandan rebels pressed their offensive to capture the capital Kigali as a UN special envoy sought to persuade them to accept a ceasefire already agreed by government forces, relief officials and diplomats said.
The rebels pounded Kigali with artillery and mortar fire shortly after the UN envoy, Iqbal Riza, left the embattled capital to meet rebel leaders in their northern stronghold of Mulindi, relief officials said.
Rwandan rebels have rejected French military participation in a UN force in the country because of its role in training and arming government troops, a spokesman said in Brussels.
BEIJING: China demanded that President Bill Clinton renew its most-favored-nation trading privileges with no strings attached.
Clinton was expected to announce soon that he will renew China's Most-Favored-Nation status, but with limited sanctions to punish Beijing for failing to make "overall significant progress" on human rights, informed sources in Washington told AFP.
But China's foreign ministry said that attaching conditions to MFN status "is not in conformity with international practices."
Only hours before, however, China bowed to earlier US demands for more open trade by slashing import licences and quotas on 195 products.
BEIJING: Seven dissidents involved in the Tiananmen Square massacre submitted a petition calling on the government to overturn the official condemnation of the 1989 pro-democracy movement.
The petition, which called for the official judgment on the democracy movement to be revised and for the release of all protesters who remain behind bars, was the first major public opposition initiative in the run-up to the fifth anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.
It also came ahead of Washington's decision on whether to maintain China's preferential trading status.

LONDON: Britain lifted the arms embargo it imposed against Israel in 1982 after the Israeli invasion of Lebanon.
Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd said in a written statement to parliament: "I have decided that, in light of favourable developments in the Middle East peace process, in particular the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and Jericho, the United Kingdom's arms embargo against Israel should be lifted ... This will bring the United Kingdom into line with European Union partners."
JERUSALEM: Palestinian gunmen slightly wounded an Israeli soldier in an ambush on a patrol near Rafah on the Gaza Strip, military sources said.
But the hardline Moslem group Islamic Jihad, claiming responsibility for the attack in retaliation for the kidnapping of a pro-Iranian militant in Lebanon, said it had killed two Israeli soldiers and seriously wounded two others.
PARIS: Officials from more than 41 nations met two draw up a Stability Pact intended to settle potential border disputes and solve the problem of minorities in central and eastern Europe.
But the conference on stability in Europe, brainchild of French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur, left aside the wars in Bosnia and the Caucasus, concentrating on preventing conflicts.
Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev welcomed the proposed pact, but said Moscow preferred that border disputes and minority issues be addressed by the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
MOSCOW: Four armed men took some 30 people hostage in a bus near the southern Russian town of Mineralnoye Vody and demanded 10 million dollars ransom, a helicopter, arms and drugs, Russian authorities announced.
The bus was travelling from Vladikavkaz, the capital of the Caucasus republic of North Ossetia which is part of Russia, to Stavropol, also in southern Russia.
The Russian Ministry for Emergency Situations said the men were armed with submachine-guns and a grenade.
ADEN, Yemen: Northern forces fired two missiles at this southern port city and despatched a column of tanks rumbling towards the Mukalla headquarters of breakaway southern leader Ali Salem al-Baid.
Witnesses said a large column of northern tanks had left Al-Ataq in the oil-rich eastern Shawba province heading for the port of Mukalla, 300 kilometres (186 miles) away.

WASHINGTON: President Bill Clinton renewed China's most favored nation trading status and abandoned his policy of linking trade issues and human rights.
Clinton backed off his threat of a year ago to revoke the trade privileges if China did not significantly improve its human rights record.
He acknowledged abuses persisted but said his strategy of engagement was more likely to advance US interests.
Business groups lauded the decision while human rights activists expressed dismay.
China had no immediate reaction.
PUERTO VALLARTA, Mexico: The International Whaling Commission voted to create a whale sanctuary in southern waters with Japan casting the only dissenting vote.
The modified French plan covers waters south of the 40th parallel, dipping below Chile and Argentina.
The Indian Ocean is already a whale sanctuary.
Observers said the latest compromise included 90 percent of the protection zone originally proposed by France.
NAIROBI: Battered and bedraggled Rwandan soldiers began fleeing the embattled capital Kigali as rebels appeared on the verge of taking the city despite an agreement to open ceasefire talks, military sources in Kigali said.
A special United Nations envoy meanwhile said the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front had agreed to open discussions about a ceasefire with the army on Monday, a UN spokesman said.
The army has already agreed to the principle of a ceasefire to allow the UN to fly desperately needed food and medicine to the survivors of a six-week bloodbath in which up to half a million people died.
MAGADAN, Russia: Nobel literature laureate Alexander Solzhenitsyn arrived back in his native Russia after 20 years in exile.
The author of "The Gulag Archipegalo" and "A Day In The Life Of Ivan Denisovich" flew into this far eastern Russian city from Anchorage, Alaska, on a stopover on his way to Vladivostock.
SANAA: President Ali Abdallah Saleh's government rejected a Saudi proposal for the UN Security Council to try to end the three-week conflict in Yemen through a ceasefire and arms embargo.
Planning Minister Abdelkarim al-Iryani told reporters here the Saudi proposal constituted "interference in Yemeni internal affairs."
Officials of the breakaway state in the south welcomed the proposal, but said they were also prepared for a long war and accused the north of escalating the conflict with a missile attack on the port of Aden.
WASHINGTON: The United States has expelled Iraqi's top diplomat in Washington for activities incompatible with the rules governing the Iraqi interest section.
State Department spokesman Michael McCurry said the diplomat, Adnan Malik, had engaged in political activity and other actions violating a 1991 agreement with Baghdad.
JEDDAH: A total of 270 pilgrims were killed in the stampede at Mecca according to Saudi.
An official Saudi spokesman said the toll included people killed on Monday and those who had died since in hospital from their injuries.
The figure was the first official toll from the stampede during the ritual "stoning of Satan" at Mina, 10 kilometres (six miles) east of Mecca.
PHNOM PENH: Cambodia's Khmer Rouge guerrillas agreed to proposals for a nationwide ceasefire on the eve of peace talks with Cambodian government leaders in North Korea.
The rebel faction announced it would accept a ceasefire proposed by King Norodom Sihanouk and agree to establish a joint ceasefire commission, but added that it would insist on international observers to ensure fighting stopped.
It did not specify when the ceasefire should begin.
CAPE CANAVERAL, Florida: A Greenpeace ship delayed the first British submarine test-firing of at US-made Trident missile off the coast of Florida to protest nuclear proliferation, the environmental group said.
LONDON: Britain and Ireland called for an immediate end to Irish Republican Army and loyalist violence in Northern Ireland.
They also issued a veiled warning that unless the IRA's attitude changed, republicans would face being excluded from the peace process.

BEIJING: China welcomed US President Bill Clinton's decision to renew its most-favoured-nation (MFN) trade status and abandon his linkage of trade to human rights, but criticised his refusal to lift all sanctions against it. "
The Chinese government and people welcome this decision by President Clinton," the foreign ministry said in a statement reacting to the announcement in Washington on MFN renewal.
MOSCOW: Russian special forces shot dead one gunman and arrested three others 24 hours after they hijacked a schoolbus and led authorities on a road and helicopter chase through the Caucasus, officials said.
The last four hostages, three women and a man, were released unharmed in the rescue operation launched by elite interior ministry troops when the hijackers landed a getaway helicopter in Russia's rebellious republic of Chechnya, interior ministry officials said.
VLADIVOSTOK, Russia: Alexander Solzhenitsyn, the Soviet Union's most celebrated dissident, arrived home after 20 years in exile to a welcome from girls bearing bread, salt and flowers.
The 75-year-old (eds correct) Nobel prize-winning author flew first to the eastern Siberian town of Magadan, in the heartland of the Soviet Gulag prison camp system where he spent eight years of his life.
He was met by the girls bearing traditional gifts and paid tribute to the victims of the prison camps, after twice stooping to touch his native soil.
NAIROBI: Rwandan rebels made further advances against battle-weary government soldiers who have started fleeing the capital Kigali where fierce artillery battles raged through the night, a UN spokesman said.
Hutu militiamen blamed for the slaughter of hundreds of thousands of people abandoned several positions in Kigali as rebels pressed what could be their final onslaught on the capital.
SANAA: The UN Security Council sought to broker a ceasefire in Yemen's civil war despite the north's objections, as southern forces claimed advances on the battlefield.
Britain's ambassador to the United Nations, Sir David Hannay, said the council was considering a resolution or declaration urging the north and south to return to the negotiating table.
On the battlefront, northern and southern army units clashed to the north and east of Aden, as well in the oil region of Hadhramaut, where Saleh's southern rival, Ali Salem al-Baid, has set up base.

BUDAPEST: Former communists in Hungary's Socialist Party are expected to form a coalition government despite being projected to win an absolute majority in parliament after Sunday's general election run-off vote.
The pro-reform Socialist Party (MSZP) of former foreign minister Gyula Horn is expected to govern with the liberals in the Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ), the main opposition in the outgoing parliament.
PARIS: European foreign ministers agreed on measures aimed at preventing border conflicts in eastern Europe and solving problems over ethnic minorities.
The 53 delegations meeting at UNESCO headquarters here agreed unanimously to set up two regional roundtables, one dealing with the problems of Russian minorities in the three Baltic states, and the other with Hungarian minorities in Slovakia and Romania.
Russia reacted ambiguously, with the conference seen as an attempt to extend EU influence in areas once ruled by the former Soviet Union.
PUERTO VALLARTA, Mexico: Members of the International Whaling Commission (IWC) voted to create a huge whale sanctuary in the waters surrounding the Antarctic.
Among those whales protected by the sanctuary are the estimated 1,000 remaining blue whales, which grow to 30 meters (100 feet) and can weigh 150 tonnes, and some 12,000 humpback whales.
The sanctuary was denounced by Japan, which threatened to review its links with the IWC.

UNITED NATIONS: North Korea has resumed refueling at a nuclear site, defying international inspectors and threatening to make a full accounting of weapons-grade fuel impossible, the International Atomic Energy Agency said.
IAEA director general Hans Blix said the accelerated pace of fuel rod removal could, within days, make it impossible for inspectors to determine whether weapons-grade plutonium had been diverted to military uses at the site at Yongbyon.
SANAA: Northern Yemeni forces said they controlled the strategic areas of Lahij and Abyan as well as the oil-rich province of Shabwa and the key military base at Al-Anad.
Abyan and Shabwa lie to the east of the southern stronghold of Aden, with Al-Anad and Lahij guarding the city's northern approaches.
The south earlier claimed advances on the battlefield as the UN Security Council sought ways of brokering a ceasefire in Yemen's civil war despite the north's objections.
A new peace plan for Yemen was presented to the Security Council by Oman, which will take over the chairmanship of the council next Wednesday.
PORT-AU-PRINCE: The Tonton Macoutes, the dreaded militia that terrorized Haitians under two dictators, re-emerged and pledged to lead the resistance if the United States invaded the impoverished Caribbean country.
The Macoutes, whose name became synonymous with savagery under the regimes of Francois "Papa Doc" Duvalier and his son, Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier, pleged to regroup and use machetes, knives, stones and voodoo against foreign invaders.
WASHINGTON: The United States is willing to help the United Nations strengthen a mission aimed at ending the carnage in Rwanda, but has no plans to involve US troops, the White House said.
President Bill Clinton told UN Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali at a White House meeting that Washington would continue helping find countries willing to send troops to the African country where an estimated 200,000 people have been slaughtered in ethnic fighting.
OSLO: Norway vowed to continue hunting minke whales and dismissed an international decision to establish a whale sancutary in the Antarctic as having no scientific basis. "
Norway's policy remains the same," said foreign ministry spokesman Ingvar Havnen. "
The government should take a formal decision in a few weeks' time on the quotas."
Norway was absent at Thursday's vote by the International Whaling Commission in Mexico to create a no-hunting zone in the fertile waters south of the 40th parallel in the Southern Hemisphere.
Ecologists and US President Bill Clinton praised the action.
SANTO DOMINGO: The main opposition presidential candidate threatened to shut down the government if his President Joaquin Balaguer is named the winner of what some international observers called a tainted vote.
Jose Francisco Pena Gomez said that if Balaguer was proclaimed the winner without clearing up reports of fraud, senators, deputies and other officials from the Dominican Revolutionary Party would refuse to be sworn in, making the Dominican Republic ungovernable.

NAIROBI: Rwandan rebels are closing in on Gitarama, the base of Rwanda's self-proclaimed government, as mortar shells landed near a hospital run by the Red Cross in Kigali, UN spokesman Abdul Kabia said.
Intermittent artillery duels, between the mainly Tutsi Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) and government forces, raged in central Kigali after a lull earlier in the day.
The rebel fighters are advancing southwards from the capital towards the town of Gitarama where the interim government is based.
ZAGREB: UN envoy Yasushi Akashi has invited the warring parties in Bosnia-Hercegovina to negotiate a comprehensive cessation of hostilities at a meeting in Geneva Thursday and Friday, the UN Protection Force announced.
The co-chairmen of the peace conference in the former Yugoslavia, Lord Owen of the European Union and Thorvald Stoltenberg of the United Nations, as well as US special envoy Charles Redman and his Russian counterpart Vitaly Churkin, were also invited.
MONROVIA: One of the rival tribal wings of Liberia's ULIMO armed faction said it had gained "total control" of their movement's disputed headquarters north of the capital Monrovia.
General Roosevelt Johnson, the military commander of the United Liberation Movement (ULIMO) and chief of the Krahn clan, said his troops had captured the headquarters from the fighters of the Mandingo people after two days of fighting.
His troops had lost "one soldier, with one wounded" he said, but the Mandingos had suffered "heavy losses" although he did not give an overall toll or mention civilian casualties.
VIENNA: The International Atomic Energy Agency admitted failure in its attempts to monitor the refuelling of a controversial nuclear reactor in North Korea as Pyongyang defended the operation.
In Seoul the South Korean government called on the North to stop the refuelling at the five-megawatt Yongbyon reactor, warning that the situation could degenerate into a crisis.
The IAEA issued a statement confirming that North Korea had refused to allow its inspectors to check that no fuel was being diverted to make nuclear weapons.
MOSCOW: The president of the breakaway Caucasus republic of Chechnya has escaped unhurt from a car-bomb attack in which his interior minister and deputy as well as their driver were killed, a presidential spokesman said.
The cabinet of the Moslem republic, which has declared independence from Russia, met in emergency session after the attack and a curfew was imposed for a month.
Spokesman Movladi Udugov, reached by telephone, said a remote-controlled booby-trapped Zhiguli car exploded as President Dzhokar Dudayev's motorcade was passing.
MOSCOW: Russian former vice president Alexander Rutskoi, Boris Yeltsin's key rival and sworn enemy, urged the hardline opposition to unite and to speed the restoration of the Soviet Union.
Rutskoi urged the "union of all opposition forces," saying together they "were the only way to restore the state within the borders of the Soviet Union," in a speech to an opposition congress held to map out a common political strategy.
Rutskoi also proposed the formation of a shadow cabinet at a national meeting at the end of September, and called for early elections, though did not specify when nor which elections he meant.

WASHINGTON: A four-month ceasefire in the former Yugoslavia could be agreed by the warring factions within a matter of weeks, top European negotiator Lord David Owen said in a television interview.
Earlier Saturday the United Nations announced its envoy Yasushi Akashi had asked the warring factions in Bosnia-Herzegovina to negotiate a cessation of hostilities in a meeting in Geneva next week.
The United Nations wants the factions to agree to a ceasefire and accept a European partition plan giving 51 percent of the territory to a Croat-Moslem federation and 49 percent to the Serbs.
MOSCOW: Authorities clamped a one-month state of alert Saturday on the breakaway Russian Caucasus republic of Chechnya after bombers failed in an attempt to assassinate President Dzhokar Dudayev.
Dudayev emerged unhurt from a car-bomb attack near the capital Grozny in which his interior minister and deputy as well as their driver were killed, a presidential spokesman said.
Sunday was declared a day of mourning.
WASHINGTON: The United States is determined to use diplomacy to try to end North Korea's defiance of international nuclear inspectors, the top US general said Saturday. "
It is clearly our desire to resolve that issue without any kind of confrontation," said General John Shalikashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "
It is an issue of concentrating now on the appropriate next steps, which is, through vigorous dialogue and diplomatic efforts, to reach a resolution," he said.
The International Atomic Energy Agency said Friday that North Korea had resumed refueling at a nuclear site, defying international inspectors and threatening any full accounting of weapons-grade fuel.
NAIROBI: Rwandan rebels were Saturday closing in on Gitarama, the base of Rwanda's self-proclaimed government, amid continued attacks on the violence-wracked capital Kigali, a UN spokesman said.
Government officials sought refuge in Gitarama after the RPF turned its offensive towards the capital a month ago, a few weeks after the April 6 death of President Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspected rocket attack on his plane, which re-ignited the civil war.
Between 200,000 and 500,000 people, mostly Tutsis, have died in the last two months of ethnic massacres.
HAVANA: About 100 Cubans eluded guards Saturday and slipped into the Belgian ambassador's residence to seek asylum, Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina said. "
That is not the route that should be taken by those who would like to leave the country, so it is up to Belgian authorities familiar with our positions on the matter to take the appropriate steps," Robaina said.
Cuba routinely denies the right to exit the country to Cuban nationals who try to leave by seeking asylum in diplomatic facilities.
The Belgian ambassador, Paul Vermeirsch, could not immediately be reached for comment.
ADEN, Yemen: One person was killed and four were wounded Saturday in a missile attack on the southern Yemeni capital Aden, even though the missile was shot down, a southern Yemeni military statement said.
Southern anti-aircraft batteries shot the missile apart, but debris fell on the Sheikh Osman district in the north of the city, killing one person, the statement said.
Southern Yemen on Saturday appealed to Jordan to intervene to stop the civil war that broke out between the former North and South Yemen on May 5, according to official sources here.
BOGOTA: Six people were killed Saturday in clashes between the army and leftist rebels, violently capping what has been an otherwise peaceful campaign to succeed President Cesar Gaviria a day before the vote.
The Defense Ministry said the fighting broke out in the departments of Caqueta, Huila and Antioquia.
Three rebels, two army troops and one civilian were killed, the ministry reported.
Electoral authorities cancelled voting at polling stations in 20 remote districts along the Caribbean coast because of rebel threats.

NAIROBI: The United Nations suspended its evacuation of civilians from Kigali as fighting continued to rage in the capital, where six children were wounded when a mortar hit their orphanage.
In Geneva, the International Red Cross said some 400,000 Rwandans were fleeing the capital.
SANAA: Northern forces have launched a fierce artillery assault on Aden airport to try to ground southern warplanes attacking advancing troops, a military spokesman said here.
But he denied southern claims the north had unleashed a missile attack on the southern stronghold.
There was no confirmation from southern sources of the shelling of the airport.
BUDAPEST: Almost one quarter of Hungary's eight-million-strong electorate had voted by mid-morning in the country's second democratic election since the fall of communism in 1989, but polling was sluggish compared to the first round three weeks ago.
The Socialist Party made up of former communists and led by former foreign minister Gyula Horn was looking to consolidate its strong performance at the first round, where it was heading for an absolute majority.
BRUSSELS: Belgian Foreign Minister Willy Claes promised to try to persuade Cuban authorities not to punish 114 people who broke into the Belgian ambassador's residence seeking asylum.
Speaking on RTBF radio, he signalled that the asylum-seekers, including 24 children, would not be allowed to stay in the residency.
TUNIS: The PLO will stick to the interim accord launching autonomy but still seek a Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital, the new self-rule authority said in remarks obtained here.
The pledge followed a row over a speech by chairman Yasser Arafat in a Johannesburg mosque in which he called for a holy war to recapture Jerusalem.

VIENNA: The International Atomic Energy Agency has rejected a proposal to keep nuclear material from a reactor in North Korea "in a safe place, under seal" an agency source confirmed.
Agency experts here said storing the nuclear rods would not allow it to verify whether any had been diverted for the possible manufacture nuclear weapons.
RIGA: Latvian Foreign Minister Georgs Andrejevs has admitted in an open letter to a newspaper that he collaborated with the KGB, but lambasted an "absurd" campaign of accusations against him and other Baltic politicians.
Andrejevs, foreign minister since November 1992, is one of five Latvian MPs whose mandate was suspended a month ago after an investigative commission announced it had found their names in a KGB file.
SARAJEVO: The mainly Moslem Bosnian government army is steeling itself for a new round of offensives to ensure the future Moslem-Croat federation "will have dimensions achieved on the battlefield," army commander General Rasim Delic said.
On a tour of army units, Delic urged Bosnian politicians to take more account of the needs of their troops as "that is what the percentage of land which our state will occupy depends on, rather than on (international mediators) David Owen and Thorvald Stoltenberg."
KWANGJU, South Korea: Armed riot police stopped some 30,000 protesters from storming a US cultural center and an office of South Korea's ruling party in the biggest anti-US demonstration here this year by radical students. "
Oust the Yankees," yelled the demonstrators, demanding that Washington stop pressuring North Korea to give up its nuclear program.

BUDAPEST: Former communists won an absolute majority in run-off elections in Hungary after four years of conservative rule, the national election centre said.
With more than 99 percent of the votes counted, the former communists, restyled as the Hungarian Socialist Party, have won at least 204 seats in the 386-member legislature, the centre said.
SANTIAGO: Erich Honecker, who ruled communist East Germany for 18 years and built the Berlin Wall, died of liver cancer, a spokesperson for the family said.
He was 81 years old.
The former East German communist party chief and head of state, who arrived in Chile in January 1993, died at his home in exile in Santiago.
NAIROBI: Fighting raged in Kigali on the eve of ceasefire talks between rebel and government forces amid reports that the interim government had fled its base in Gitarama.
The UN Mission to Rwanda said several ministers had left Gitarama for safer territory at Kibuye, but Rwandan ambassador to Belgium Francois Garupiyintwali denied the report. "
The entire Rwandan government is still at work in Gitarama.
I myself spoke to government officials in Gitarama early Sunday evening," he told AFP.
SARAJEVO: At least one person was killed and three injured in Bosnian Serb attacks on towns in central Bosnia, Radio Sarajevo reported.
UN spokesman Major Rob Annink confirmed the attacks, saying 10 Serb shells hit the town of Bugojno and a few shells on Travnik, but gave no details of casualties.
The radio report said the attack on Bugojno continued until late afternoon, killing one person and injuring three.
It added that about 100 Serb shells hit the villages of Turbe and Komar, to the west of Travnik.

NAIROBI: A Nepalese peacekeeper abducted two weeks ago in an ambush that left five colleagues dead was freed, the United Nations said.
The peacekeeper was wounded during the clash but appears to be in satisfactory health, said a spokesman for the UN mission here, George Bennet.
The soldier was abducted from a Mogadishu hospital after the assault by Somali gunmen on May 16.
HAVANA: A spectacular occupation of the Belgium embassy by more than 100 Cubans seeking asylum faced the government of President Fidel Castro went into a second day in Havana.
Cuban police surrounded the Belgiam ambassador's residence in Miramar section of west Havana, where as many as 124 people, among them 24 children, broke in Saturday in a desperate bid to leave the country.
BOGOTA: The ruling Liberal Party's Ernesto Samper was leading his closest opponent by a razor-thin margin, according to early returns in Colombia's presidential vote, but voters will have to return to the polls next month for a runoff as neither won the necessary majority.
With 94 percent of all votes counted nationwide, Samper, with 45.2 percent, was leading Conservative Andres Pastrana, with 44.8 percent, the electoral board said.
NICOSIA: Iraqi President Saddam Hussein sacked prime minister Ahmad al-Khodair's government and took over the premiership himself to tackle the country's economic crisis, the Iraqi news agency INA said.
In a statement put out by INA, the country's ruling Revolutionary Command Council said it had decided "for economic reasons, to relieve the government of its duties."

KIGALI: Rwandan rebel and army leaders held talks in the embattled capital Kigali aimed at ending the violence that has claimed up to 500,000 lives as UN troops evacuated hundreds of civilians.
The UN-mediated truce talks began amid heavy fighting.
TOKYO: A lone rightwing gunman tried to assassinate former prime minister Morihiro Hosokawa in an assault that shocked political leaders and sharply reminded the country of brooding nationalist sentiment.
The gunman fired a single shot at Hosokawa from around 10 metres (33 feet) as he emerged from a meeting, but the bullet hit the ceiling and there were no casualties, police said.
TUZLA, Bosnia-Hercegovina: The UN-controlled Tuzla airport in northern Bosnia-Hercegovina came under heavy shelling, forcing UN troops into protective shelters, a UN Protection Force officer said.
He did not say which side was responsible for the attack, but a military source told AFP: "The Serbs said Monday morning that they could not guarantee safety at the airport today.
" MOSCOW: Authorities in the breakaway Russian Caucasus republic of Chechnya accused the Russian secret service of being behind a failed attempt to assassinate President Dzhokar Dudayev.
They also blamed the Russian secret service for the recent hijacking of a bus in southern Russia.
SEOUL: Some 60 people were injured in clashes between riot police and thousands of anti-nuclear demonstrators opposed to a planned nuclear waste dump on South Korea's eastern coast.
Violence erupted in Uljin, 330 kilometers (190 miles) southeast of Seoul, when thousands of riot police, helped by a helicopter, unleashed a tear gas attack on 5,000 protesters, said KBS, the state-run broadcasting network.
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip: PLO guerrillas who joined the new police force stormed out of their training camp demanding guns to protect themselves after suspected Israeli agents in a car chased four of the men from the Hawks, the armed wing of the mainstream PLO group Fatah.
ADEN, Yemen: Sporadic artillery duels broke an uneasy calm along the front lines in Yemen's four-week civil war, military officials said here.
Western diplomats meanwhile said that in Sanaa, Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Saleh had clamped down with an iron fist, arresting hundreds and setting up a spy network in a bid to check the slightest resistance to the civil war.
PRETORIA: In a further breakthrough for peace in South Africa, the white right-wing Conservative Party agreed to join talks on a separate homeland for Afrikaners.
President Nelson Mandela said Deputy President Thabo Mbeki would facilitate tripartite talks between the government, the CP and another right-wing group, the Freedom Front.
The CP boycotted South Africa's first all-race elections to press its demand for a "volkstaat," or white homeland, and warned Afrikaners would resort to violence to achieve their goal.
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip: Israel freed 78 Palestinian prisoners in line with an agreement which launched self-rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho this month, a Palestinian police official said.

UNITED NATIONS: The Security Council called on North Korea to allow full international inspection of its nuclear facilities but stopped short of threatening sanctions against Pyongyang.
In a consensus statement, the 15-member council called for immediate consultations between the International Atomic Energy Agency and North Korea about Pyongyang's refuelling of the Yongbyon nuclear reactor.
The council said it was "gravely concerned" by the IAEA's assessment that if the refuelling continues experts will not be able to determine whether the plutonium has been diverted for nuclear weapons production.
KIGALI: Rwandan rebel and army commanders agreed to allow the evacuation of civilians and to resume UN-brokered ceasefire talks Thursday.
The accord was announced by the commanders after their first face-to-face meeting at the Amahoro Hotel.
UN troops meanwhile evacuated hundreds of civilians trapped for weeks behind the battle lines to safe areas, after an early morning delay caused by fierce artillery duels and difficulties in obtaining guarantees of security from both sides, UN officials said.
SANAA: Yemen appealed for urgent international aid to help victims of a four-week-old civil war between northern and southern forces.
United Nations representative Ouni al-Hani said the assistance, including tents for an estimated 100,000 persons who have been displaced by the fighting along with medicine and food, would be made available to "all areas of Yemen."
The government has also appealed for help in rebuilding public facilities damaged by the fighting, which erupted on May 5 after authorities from northern and southern Yemen failed to agree on the administration of the country.
NDJAMENA: The Chadian flag flew over the disputed Aouzou Strip, a tract of mineral-rich desert territory after Libya officially handed it back after 22 years of occupation and conflict, Chadian radio reported.
The ceremony took place at Aouzou, the town after which the territory in the far north of Chad on the Libyan border is named.
The barren strip of land has been fought over several times by the two nations.
SARAJEVO: Leaders of the Croat-Moslem federation of Bosnia-Hercegovina reaffirmed at the opening of parliament their claim for a 58 percent share of the republic's territory.
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic meanwhile said he was not sure he would travel to Geneva for talks Thursday with international negotiators who are attempting to impose a settlement that would give the federation 51 percent of the territory, with 49 percent going to the republic's separatist Serbs.
ATHENS: Greek Foreign Minister Carolos Papoulias said Athens would close its border to Albanian migrant workers if bilateral relations continued to deteriorate.
As tension between the two nations increased, Papoulias said Albanian President Sali Berisha "should know before firing off impudent accusations against Greece that we provide work for 400,000 Albanians."

SEOUL: Emergency meetings were held in Tokyo and Seoul to discuss possible sanctions against North Korea for its persistent defiance of international demands that it open its suspect nuclear program to full international inspections. "
North Korea should recognize the unfortunate fact that it is inviting confrontation with the entire world community" by ignoring calls for nuclear transparency, the South Korean foreign ministry said in a statement.
South Korean Foreign Minister Han Sung-Joo hinted that Seoul could seek sanctions against Pyongyang outside the UN framework if China used its veto right in favor of the Stalinist North.
KIGALI: The United Nations suspended its operations in conflict-torn Rwanda after a Senegalese UN officer was killed by a shell in the capital, deputy UN force commander Brigadier Henry Anyidoho said.
Shortly before the announcement a UN team left Kigali to investigate reports that 500 people were massacred at a refugee camp in Kabgayi, south of the capital. "
We are appalled to have received a report from aid agencies that 500 people were massacred at Kabgayi three days ago," UN military spokesman Major Jean-Guy Plante said. "
We are trying to verify those reports."
ADEN, Yemen: Southern forces sent in warplanes and fired rockets to block a northern thrust on Aden from two new fronts to the west of this key city.
The fighting flared as the UN Security Council was due to debate the conflict later in the day.
A spokesman for southern forces loyal to former vice president Ali Salem al-Baid have "countered the northern offensive" begun on Monday after calling in warplanes that inflicted "heavy losses" on the enemy.
CAIRO: Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak urged the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) to map out a fresh strategy to fulfil its role in the post-Cold War world. "
We are not in need of turning the movement into a bloc that ... fears the establishment of the new world order," he told the movement's foreign ministers. "
Our real need is to participate with thought and work."
Representatives of more than 80 countries have gathered for the four-day ministerial conference which will choose a new chairman to take over from Indonesia when its three-year term runs out in September 1995.
MOSCOW: Russia's rebel republic of Chechnya vowed to rebuff any attempt by Moscow to use troops to enforce a decree by President Boris Yeltsin taking over two Caucasus regions Chechnya considers part of its territory.
Chechen Foreign Minister Shamseddin Yussef was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying the republic "will take adequate measures to repell any aggression from Russian troops."
However, Chechen spokesman Movladi Udugov, after examining a watered-down version of the decree, later said that Yeltsin's decision did not pose a threat, ITAR-TASS reported.
MANILA: An international conference on alleged Indonesian abuses in the former Portuguese colony of East Timor opened after the Supreme Court overruled Philippine government efforts to ban the meeting.
The ban had been obtained by allies of President Fidel Ramos, who had said the conference would cause "irreparable harm" to relations with Indonesia.
But the court upheld an order by Ramos banning foreigners from attending the conference, citing national interests.
SARAJEVO: The Croat Kresimir Zubak was elected for a six-month term as the first president of the new Croat-Moslem federation in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Zubak, a 46-year-old lawyer, was elected as the federation's constituent parliament met for the second day in the Bosnian capital Sarajevo.
The man chosen as his vice president is a Moslem and Bosnia's current vice president, Ejub Ganic.
Both men were nominated by their respective communities and elected unanimously.

KIGALI: The United Nations suspended all relief operations in Rwanda's embattled capital Kigali after a Senegalese peacekeeper was killed in a shell blast, UN officials said.Among the operations suspended indefinitely as rebel and army gunners pounded each other were the evacuation of civilians trapped behind the battle lines and food distribution to needy civilians.SARAJEVO: The new Moslem-Croat federation took its first concrete steps toward becoming a political reality by electing a president and asking Bosnian premier Haris Silajdzic to form a cabinet.Under the federal constitution Silajdzic, who will be accompanied by a Croat deputy premier, has two weeks to form his cabinet, which will function as the government of both Bosnia-Hercegovina and the federation.Delegates elected Croat Kresimir Zubak for a six-month term as the first president of the new federation.ZAGREB: The international community is showing signs of "considerable impatience" with the parties to the Bosnian conflict who now face the "obligation" to conclude a truce at talks in Geneva, the Russian envoy to ex-Yugoslavia, Vitaly Churkin, said.ADEN: A missile fired by north Yemeni forces early Wednesday slammed into Aden, the principal city in southern Yemen, triggering a huge fire near the airport.South Yemeni anti-aircraft units had earlier opened fire in an attempt to intercept the missile.UNITED NATIONS: The Security Council agreed on the text of a draft resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in Yemen, and for the resumption of talks between northern and southern forces, the council president said.Council president Ibrahim Gambari of Nigeria said the draft resolution should be adopted Wednesday.AR RAM, Occupied West Bank: Israeli undercover troops shot dead two wanted Moslem fundamentalists just north of Jerusalem, witnesses and military officials said.The officials said two senior members of the Islamic Resistance Movement HAMAS died in a security service operation on the West Bank.MEXICO CITY: A panel investigating the March 23 assassination of front-running presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio disbanded in disgust, charging the government failed to cooperate in the probe.WASHINGTON: Dan Rostenkowski, a Democratic power broker and point man for President Bill Clinton's health care reform, was indicted on 17 counts of corruption.A federal grand jury handed down the indictment against the chairman of the powerful House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee after Rostenkowski spurned a plea bargain.PRETORIA: President Nelson Mandela said he was "delighted" to learn that South Africa on Wednesday would rejoin the Commonwealth after a 33-year absence. "The South African government is looking forward to making a positive contribution in the various fields of endeavour pursued by the Commonwealth," Mandela said.UNITED NATIONS: The Security Council voted unanimously to extend the mandate of the UN Operation in Somalia for four months, but under strict conditions sought by the United States.The terms of the renewal were set out in resolution 923 adopted by the 15-member council, underscoring a new, US-backed drive to establish clear terms for the renewal of UN missions worldwide.UNITED NATIONS: The Security Council decided to extend the UN observer mission in Angola for one month, and called for an end to the renewed hostilities in the African country.LONDON: British Prime Minister John Major called for a new "multi-speed, multi-layered" approach to Europe, saying he did not believe European Union members had to be unanimous on every issue.His remarks, which come in the run-up to June 9 election to the European parliament, immediately provoked angry protest from opposition MPs, who said he was relegating Britain to the second-rank in Europe.
